scourge, bane, : something causing misery
(the bane of my life)

cynosure: An object that serves as a focal point of attention and admiration.
Something that serves to guide.

spectral line: atoms absorb and give out light at characteristic wavelengths.
if they swallow more than they emit, the result is a dark line in the spectrum
of a celestial object. if they emit more than they swallow, the result is
a bright line.
Individual elements have their own spectrum. When hydrogen gas is heated,
it gives off only a few narrow colored lines that make up the unique spectral
fingerprint of that element. This is called emission spectrum. If light from
a star passes through a cool cloud of the same gas, the element will absorb
from the light the same colored bands produced by an emission spectrum, leaving
black lines in their place. The result is an absorption spectrum.
absorpton lines are produced when particular wavelenghts of radiation from a
hot source are absorbed by a cooler, intervening medium.

Because the moon completes each rotation in exactly the same time it takes
to revolve the Earth, we can only look at one side of the moon.
+++
the Moon is in a synchronous orbit (meaning it spins exactly once on its axis for
 every one revolution around Earth), forced to show the same face toward Earth for all eternity.

supernova: a cataclysmic explosion of a massive star. an explosion where
a dying star blows off its outer layers.

Right ascension: celestial equivalent of terrestrial longitude.
declination: celestial equivalent of terrestrial latitude.

black body: a body that absorbs all the heat that falls on it.

In computer networking literature, digital bandwidth refers to data rate
measured in bit/s, for example channel capacity (digital bandwidth capacity)
or throughput (digital bandwidth consumption). The reason for this usage
is that the channel capacity in bit/s is proportional to the analogue bandwidth
in hertz according to Hartley's law.

In communication networks, throughput is the amount of digital data per
time unit that is delivered over a physical or logical link, or that is
passing through a certain network node. For example, it may be the amount
 of data that is delivered to a certain network terminal or host computer,
 or between two specific computers. The throughput is usually measured
in bits per second (bits/s or bps), occasionally in data packets per
 second or data packets per timeslot. The term corresponds to digital bandwidth consumption.

Cable modems are primarily used to deliver broadband Internet access,
taking advantage of unused bandwidth on a cable television network.
Like all residential broadband network technologies (e.g. DSL, FTTX,
 Satellite internet, WiMAX), a fixed channel capacity is shared by a
 population of users (in the case of cable internet, users in a neighborhood
share the available capacity provided by a single coaxial cable line).
 Therefore, service speed can vary depending on how many people are using the service at the same time.

octothorpe: the # sign

point-and-shoot vs SLR:
The image that the photographer sees through the viewfinder of a point-and-shoot
camera is not the same image that passes through the primary lens of the camera
 (that is, the lens that projects the image onto the film or,
in the case of digital cameras, the image sensor). Rather, the
image seen in the viewfinder of a point-and-shoot camera passes
 through a separate lens. SLRs, on the other hand, have only one lens,
and a mirror diverts the image from the lens into the viewfinder;
 that mirror then retracts when the picture is taken so that
 the image can be recorded on the film or sensor. It is because
of this method of diverting the image into the viewfinder that
 pictures cannot be previewed on the LCD screens of most digital SLRs.

fluorescence: Fluorescence is a luminescence that is mostly found as an
optical phenomenon in cold bodies, in which the molecular absorption of
a photon triggers the emission of another photon with a longer wavelength.
The energy difference between the absorbed and emitted photons ends up as
 molecular vibrations or heat. Usually the absorbed photon is in the
 ultraviolet range, and the emitted light is in the visible range,

The life of a CFL lamp is significantly shorter if it is only turned on for
 a few minutes at a time: In the case of a 5-minute on/off cycle the lifespan
of a CFL can be up to 85% shorter, reducing its lifespan to the level of an incandescent lamp
they burn out more quickly when cycled frequently.

In telecommunications, modulation is the process of varying a periodic
waveform, i.e. a tone, in order to use that signal to convey a message,

analog signal: a continuous-time signal.
discrete-time signal is a signal that has been sampled from a continuous-time signal.
digital signal: a discrete-time signal that takes on only a discrete set of values.
It typically derives from a discrete signal that has been quantized.
first step: sampling
quantizing: representing the value with a number of bits.
any number of quantization levels is possible, not just powers of two.

victual: food , victuals: provisions (Food supplies)

cotton to: to take a liking to, to come to understand

unctuous, fulsome, oily, oleaginous, smarmy: Characterized by affected, exaggerated, or
insincere earnestness:

to be left to one's own devices: to be left alone, unsupervised

celestial sphere: an imaginary sphere of infinite extent with
the earth at its center, upon which all the celestial bodies
appear to be projected as though they were at a uniform distance.

idioms: phrases that don't mean what they literally say.

affect: to act in a way you don't feel (she affected an air of superiority)

that: before a restrictive clause (no commas needed)
which: before everything else (commas needed)

googol: 1 followed by 100 zeroes. 10 to the 100th power.
10 raised to the power of one hundred.
Two to the power of three is eight
is raised to the 100th power
a^n : a raised to the n-th power, a raised to the power [of] n, or possibly a
raised to the exponent [of] n, or more briefly as a to the n.
2 to the 32nd power (32-bit)
10 to the 36th power

unlawful: not authorized by law
illegal: forbidden by law.

Zoning is a term used in urban planning for a system of land-use regulation in various parts of the world.
The word is derived from the practice of designating permitted uses of land based on mapped
zones which separate one set of land uses from another.
Theoretically, the primary purpose of zoning is to segregate uses that are thought
 to be incompatible; in practice, zoning is used as a permitting system to prevent
new development from harming existing residents or businesses.
A term that refers to a system of land-use  regulation that specifies
what can be built on a piece of land.

colon: to introduce something.
I have two favorite dishes: chicken and shrimp.
use colon after a complete sentence. don't capitalize
the first word after a colon.
the second clause does not have to be a complete sentence.

semicolon: separate two complete sentences.
two clauses should be related.
don't use with coordinating conjunction (and, or)
can also be used in a list.
<....>; however, <...>
<....>; nevertheless, <...>
<....>, and <...>
However, <...>
<...>, however, <...>

comma splice: joining two sentence with a comma without a coordinating conjunction.

hopefully -> in a hopeful manner, use "I hope" instead.

A dongle is a piece of hardware that attaches to a computer in order
to make a piece of secured software run. A dongle in this sense is used as
a high-end form of security to prevent the unauthorized copying of software,
The term has been somewhat generalized to describe specialized connectors that
convert one type of port to another, for example an 8P8C modular jack that plugs
 into the edge connector on some kinds of PC card Ethernet adaptors, as well as
small devices such as USB flash drives or wireless networking adapters.
a security device that plugs into a computer.

run-on sentence: a sentence that lacks punctuations.

economies of scale: A reduction in unit costs that arise from an increase in production.

spoonerism: A transposition of sounds of two or more words, especially a ludicrous one,
such as Let me sew you to your sheet for Let me show you to your seat.

mondegreen: A series of words that result from the mishearing or misinterpretation of a statement or song lyric. For example,
I led the pigeons to the flag for I pledge allegiance to the flag.

malapropism: Ludicrous misuse of a word, especially by confusion with one of similar sound.

spoonerism: when the speaker mixes up sound.
mondegreen: when listener mishears words,
eggcorn: when speaker swaps homophones in phrases.
malapropism: when speaker substitutes a similar-sounding word for another.

dentistry:
 The letter part of the code refers to different parts or surfaces of the tooth.
An "M" mesial, or "D" distal, is the front or back surface of the tooth, respectively.
An "O" occlusal, is the top or biting surface of a back tooth (molar or premolar),
and "I" incisal, is the biting edge of front teeth (incisors and canines).
 A "B" buccal, is the surface of the tooth towards the cheek, and an "L" lingual,
 is the surface of the tooth towards the tongue. So if the dentist says number
3MOD, you'll know that you have a cavity on your upper right first molar,
 involving the front, top, and back parts of the tooth.
occlusal: biting surface
mesial: toward the center of the mouth, Situated toward the middle of the front of the jaw along the curve of the dental arch.
distal: away from the center of the mouth, Situated farthest from the middle and front of the jaw, as a tooth or tooth surface.
facial: toward the face
buccal: toward the cheek
lingual: toward the tongue

sealant: resins that are applied in the pits and fissures of the chewing surfaces of teeth
to protect those surfaces. First etch the surface with acid to create a porous
surface to which the resin will adhere.
bonding: used in the restoration of discolored, damaged, or missing teeth.

A cusp is an occlusal or incisal eminence on a tooth.

silver amalgam: biocompatible (unlikely to iritate living tissue. not actually
cemented to the cavity walls. it is held in place by a close frictional
fit, plus undercutting the cavity  to lock in the in the filling when it hardens.
require at least 24 hours before reaching full strength (do not chew on it for
at least 24 hours). require support from the surrounding tooth to keep it from
chipping or shattering.

composite resin: not as strong as amalgam. not biocompatible, must be separated
from living tissue with bases or liners. easily stained. boundaries between
the tooth and the filling tend to open up.

Dental sealants (also known as "tooth sealants") can play an important role
in helping to prevent tooth decay ("cavities") in some locations on teeth.
 The placement of dental sealants involves your dentist bonding a plastic
 coating into the grooves of your tooth (the tooth's pits and fissures).
 The net result is a smoother tooth surface, one which is less likely to
trap food and plaque and one which is easier to clean with your toothbrush.

PPO: offer a list of dentists/doctors who have agreed to provide services
at a discounted fee.

HMO: dentist/doctor agrees to provide care in exchange for an amount prepaid
by the insurer per consumer per month. (capitation fee)

===========================================================

questions to ask doctor/dentist:

1. is a nonsurgical alternative available? why have you recommended surgery?

2. what happens if I don't have surgery? any advantage or disadvantage to waiting?

3. what complications do patients commonly experience? Any side effects?

4. what is the test called? how is it performed?

5. what do you expect the test to show?

6. why is the test necessary?

7. will it hurt? any risks? who performs? who analyzes the results?

8. can I get a copy of the results? how long does it take? how long before the results are known?

9. how much does it cost? is it covered by insurance?

10. what happens if I don't undergo the test? Are there any alternatives?

11. do the potential benefits outweight the risks?

12. why is the procedure recommended in this case?

13. what are the alternatives?

14. what kind do you recommend and why?

15. what is the cost? how does this compare with the cost of the alternatives, if any?

16. what is likely to happen if we do nothing at this time?

===========================================================

shank's mare: one's legs: travel by shank's mare.

scarify: to make scratches or small cuts in something, to lacerate the feeling of someone.

allay, assuage, alleviate: to lessen the intensity of

dingleberry: A piece of dried feces caught in the hair around the anus.
An incompetent, foolish, or stupid person.
a small clot of dung, as clinging to the hindquarters of an animal.

dry heaves: repeated involuntary retching unaccompanied by vomit

PBX: A Private Branch eXchange (PBX) is a telephone exchange that serves a
particular business or office, as opposed to one that a common carrier
 or telephone company operates for many businesses or for the general public.

a telephone exchange or telephone switch is a system of electronic components that
connects telephone calls.
A network switch is a computer networking device that connects network segments.

SKU (Stock keeping unit): a term used by retailers to identify the lowest level of product detail.

take one's lumps: suffer the results or consequences of one's behavior or actions

philippic: a tirade, declamation

collegium: a group in which each member has approximately equal power and authority.

degringolade: a rapid decline or deterioration

contumely: harsh language or treatment arising from haughtiness or contempt
an instance of such language or treatment.

jaundiced:  Affected by or exhibiting envy, prejudice, or hostility
bilious:

logy: lethargic, marked by sluggishness.

dodgery: trickery, artifice

pass for someone/something: to appear to be someone or something else.

pass something off as something: to pretend that something is different from what it really is.

pass something on (to someone)

pass the smell test

come to pass : to happen

raddled: being in a state of confusion : lacking composure; broken-down, worn

estimable: admirable

put on emergency flashers  , hazard lights

To bear up to, to tend or move toward; as, to bear up to one another.

Call a spade a spade: To speak plainly - to describe something as it really is.

on a dime: At a precise point; within a narrowly defined area:
turn on a dime - have a small turning radius;

Blue Cross and Blue Shield consists of a network of local community health service corporations.
A nationwide federation, Blue Cross and Blue Shield operate under and
are covered by state laws as not-for-profit service providers.
Blue Cross covers hospital costs, as well as outpatient care and home care.
Blue Shield plans cover physicians' services, dental, vision, and some
outpatient services. The two plans cooperate with one another
 to provide a form of comprehensive coverage for the subscribers to the plans.

Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) provides prepaid comprehensive health care
 services to an enrolled group of members within a specified area -- controlled
by geography and enrollment allowances. Its doctors are employed by the HMO, on
a salary which is not dictated by the number or patients or the nature of the
 treatment given. The HMO selects its doctors, hospitals and other care facilities,
 which are solely offered under its coverage. An HMO may be contracted by both
for-profit and nonprofit health organizations to provide care.
The enrollee is required to choose a primary care provider, and agree to only see them for medical care.
There is no deductible or coinsurance for health care, and little red tape if you go in for care services.
A benefit of HMOs is the coverage for preventative health care, including
checkups and many testing procedures. In fact, emphasis is placed on preventative medicine
Most HMO coverage is employer-provided, and is group coverage. That
is, a group of people are enrolled at a group rate,
Freedom of choice exists only within the infrastructure of selected doctors
and facilities. To be fully covered by the HMO, the insured has to use
the HMO's previously arranged services.

Staff Model HMOs: is a network of salaried employees of the HMO,
consisting of doctors, physicians and specialists who are employed
s by the HMO, and the facility is often owned by the HMO.
However, most have contracts with other hospitals and physicians to provide
 care to HMO clients at other facilities. Internal medicine physicians,
 family physicians, and pediatricians are chosen from the hospital-based HMO staff

Group Model HMO: A physicians group is contracted by the HMO to provide
its specific services to the enrollees. Rarely are the physicians directly
employed, nor are the HMO participants their only patients.

Independent Practice Associations (IPAs): Individual private practitioners are contracted,
and they are paid a fixed fee per each patient they agree to treat under HMO contract.
They are chosen by the HMO members as the primary care doctors. IPAs offer more choice
 to HMO recipients, since there are a lot of private practice doctors to choose from,
once the HMO contract has been prepared with the physicians. It is also sometimes
 possible to avoid changing your doctor when you change to an IPA-HMO, if a
contract can be established between the HMO and your current doctor(s).

Point Of Service Plans (POS):
 Traditionally, HMOs have kept their costs to a minimum by managing care. To manage
care, HMOs keep medical care and expenses in their network of doctors and facilities.
HMOs commonly frown on its members seeking care outside the network, and maintain
this system by requiring members to pay high out-of-pocket (sometimes footing the
entire bill) costs when care is provided by physicians who are not employed or contracted by the HMO.
The POS was developed to provide HMO members with more choices. Still restricted
 somewhat (not offered by all HMOs or employers., POs plans offer coverage outside
the network of the HMO, but the coverage outside the network resembles traditional
 health care insurance, where it is required to pay a deductible for that care
outside the HMO structure. This coverage is most often chosen by a family that
wishes to see a family physician they have dealt with for years, but who is not
 a part of their HMO system.

Preferred Provider Organization (PPO): A PPO is usually put together by an
insurance company or employer, in that they arrange a network of doctors and
 hospitals to provide care at a lower cost than traditional insurance.
PPOs have higher premiums, and also require the payment of a deductible for health services.
 The system works as though one were simply getting a percentage discount on
medical care. In this manner, it is a fee-for-service policy, rather than
prepaid for services. For coverage outside the network, the insurer pays
less of the bill and the insured has more out-of-pocket expenses. In some
ways the PPO is a lot more lenient. For example, it is not necessary to
choose a primary care physician and only receive care from that provider.

medicare:
   1.   Those 65 or older who are also eligible for Social Security benefits based on their acquired credits and years in the work force.
   2. Those disabled and under the age of 65 -- but they have to meet requirements of Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) through the Disability Determination Service (DDS. of the particular state government.
   3. People any age who have permanent kidney failure.
   4. Those 65 or older who are beneficiaries of Railroad Retirement.
Medicare:
Part A covers costs while hospitalized, and services procured in the
hospital. Inpatient services which are deemed medically necessary are
 covered, as well as hospice care for the terminally ill. Home health
care is fully covered, as well as 80 percent of necessary medical
equipment. If the patient must pay for blood on a regular basis,
Medicare Part A will pick up the payments after the insured pays
for the first three pints (three pints a year). The premium of
part A coverage is covered by FICA taxes as long as one is approved for Social Security.
Part B coverage helps pay for physician services, other medical procedures, and supplies including tests, prescription drugs, speech therapy and other services. Medicare Part B requires that the recipient pay a premium for this coverage.
	Go to previous page

Medicare Supplement Policies (Medigap):
are not government policies as are Medicare and Medicaid, although Medigap
 may be regulated strictly by some states. In most states, Medigap is offered
 to Medicare recipients over the age of 65, and the coverage picks up where Medicare lacks in coverage
coverage is offered by private insurers,

Medicaid: Run by the states, unlike the federally funded Medicare program,
Medicaid provides health coverage for low-income families and individuals who have few assets.

Insurance can be defined as a means to reduce risk or the uncertainty of loss by
bringing together enough entities exposed to loss to make their individual
losses collectively predictable, often referred to as the "Law of Large Numbers"

strategic  refers to the "what and why" and tactical refers to the "how."

Strategic thinking, planning, and actions reflect the doer's ability to consider
 the big picture, recognize patterns and trends, honor priorities, anticipate
issues, predict outcomes, and have smart alternatives to fall back upon. Strategic
issues deal with overriding mission and purpose, why the organization exists,
how it makes a difference that others don't or can't make, and where it will be in the future.

Tactical refers to the hands-on part of getting the job done, making sure the
strategic goals are met. It's performing each implementation task with quality and efficiency.

it all balances out in the end.

aleatory: Dependent on chance, luck, or an uncertain outcome; Of or characterized by gambling

jumping-off point - a beginning from which an enterprise is launched

deductible: the amount you are required to pay out of the total bill.

distaff: women in general; distaff side (female side):

holds himself out to be an "expert"

A fiduciary is defined as someone who is held in trust or complete confidence.
a person who holds assets in trust for a beneficiary.
The fiduciary duty is a legal relationship between two or more parties
(most commonly a "fiduciary" or "trustee" and a "principal" or "beneficiary")

estoppel: A bar preventing one from making an allegation or a denial that
 contradicts what one has previously stated as the truth.
a rule of evidence whereby a person is barred from denying the truth of a fact that has already been settled

The Prudent Man Rule is based on common law stemming from the 1830 Massachusetts
 court decision - Harvard College v. Armory, 9 Pick. (26 Mass.) 446, 461 (1830).
The Prudent Man Rule directs trustees "to observe how men of prudence, discretion
 and intelligence manage their own affairs, not in regard to speculation, but in
regard to the permanent disposition of their funds, considering the probable
income, as well as the probable safety of the capital to be invested"
The fiduciary is required to invest trust assets as a "prudent man" would invest
his own property with the following factors in mind: the needs of beneficiaries,
 the need to preserve the estate (or corpus of the trust) and the amount and
regularity of income. The application of these general principles depends on
the type of account administered. The Prudent Man Rule continues to be the
sprevailing statute in a small number of states.

slapdash: characterized by haste and carelessness.

antediluvian: antiquated.

presentiment: premonition

omphalos: focal point

lave: to wash, bathe

loam: Soil composed of a mixture of sand, clay, silt, and organic matter.

aphthous stomatitis: aphthous ulcer (aka canker sore)

salad days: a time of youthful inexperience

go along for the ride

crick my neck

I am not much on fate

    * Etorre's Observation - The other line moves faster.
    * Barth's Distinction - There are two types of people in the world: those who divide people into types and those who don't.
    * Acton's Law - Power corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely
    * Boob's Law - You always find something in the last placea variety of services which help meet both the medical and non-medical need of people with a chronic illness or disability who cannot care for themselves for long periods of time. you look.
    * Clarke's Third Law - Any sufficiently advanced society is indistinguishable from magic.
    * Franklin's Rule - Blessed is he who expects nothing, for he will not be disappointed.
    * Issawi's Law of the Path of Progress - A shortcut is the longest distance between two points.
    * Mencken's Law - Those who can, do. Those who cannot, teach.
    * Patton's Law - A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.
Peter Principle, which states that all people will eventually be promoted to their level of incompetence,

long-term care: Refers to the broad range of medical and personal services for individuals who
need assistance with daily activities for an extended period of time.
A variety of services which help meet both the medical and non-medical need of people
 with a chronic illness or disability who cannot care for themselves for long periods of time.

An application server is a software engine that delivers applications to client computers
 or devices, typically through the Internet and using the HyperText Transfer Protocol.
 Application servers are distinguished from web servers by the extensive use of
server-side dynamic content and frequent integration with database engines.

An application server handles most, if not all, of the business logic and data
access of the application (see Centralization). The main benefit of an application
server is the ease of application development, since applications need not be programmed;
 instead, they are assembled from building blocks provided by the application server.

no good will come of it

six degrees of separation:
any two individuals could be connected through at most five acquaintances.
the idea that everyone in the world is separated from everyone else by six links.

line of sight:
Radio transmission requires a clear path between antennas known as radio line of sight.
Line of sight is the direct free-space path that exists between two points

synergy: The interaction of two or more agents or forces so that their combined
effect is greater than the sum of their individual effects.

beyond a reasonable doubt

it can as easily be
could have just as easily
the reverse could just as easily be said of March.
but it could just as well have been used to pitch fish sticks or odor eaters

first class object:
in the context of a particular programming language, is an entity which can be used in programs
without restriction (when compared to other kinds of objects in the same language).
First-class objects are said to belong to a first-class data type.

double dispatch:
a mechanism that dispatches a function call to different concrete functions depending on
the runtime types of multiple objects involved in the call.

strong typing:
implies that the programming language places severe restrictions on the intermixing
 that is permitted to occur, preventing the compiling or running of source code which
uses data in what is considered to be an invalid way. For instance, an integer division
operation may not be used upon strings; a procedure which operates upon linked lists may
not be used upon numbers. However, the nature and strength of these restrictions is highly variable.

static typing: type checking is performed during compile-time
dynamic typing: type checking is performed during run-time.

umami
: a taste sensation that is meaty or savory and is produced by several amino acids
and nucleotides (as glutamate and aspartate)

jetsam: jettisoned goods
flotsam: floating wreckages.

cabotage:
trade or transport in coastal waters or airspace or between two points within a country
 the right to engage in coastal trade or transport

as it were:
As if it were really so; so to speak; In a manner of speaking; as we say; if I can put it that way;
figuratively speaking; as if such were so
a parenthetic phrase used to indicate that a word or statement is perhaps not formally
exact though practically right
e.g., she lives here, as it were
the feeling is, so to speak, quite dead
I was so terrified that my legs were like jelly, so to speak.
Don't you feel, as it were, overwhelmed by so many words and ways of putting them together?

all the same:
in spite of a preceding event or consideration: however, nevertheless, nonetheless,
still, yet. Informal still and all. Idioms: be that as it may.
+++
John wants to stay another week, but I'm going home all the same.
Even if you vote against it, this measure will pass just the same.
+++
after all: in spite of the circumstances; notwithstanding: He came in time after all.
+++
She went to the game anyway, doctor's orders notwithstanding.
+++
in spite of the fact that; although: It was the same material, notwithstanding the texture
 seemed different.
+++
nevertheless; anyway; yet: We were invited notwithstanding.

cloud forms when air rises and cools to its dewpoint. (form around tiny particles in the air)
fog forms when air above the ground cools to its dewpoint. (form around tiny particles in the air)

solstice:
either of the two times of the year when the sun is at its greatest distance from the celestial equator.
Point at which Sun is furthest south or north from Earths equator.
+++
A solstice is an astronomical event that occurs twice each year, when the tilt of the Earth's
axis is most inclined toward or away from the Sun, causing the Sun's apparent position in the sky
to reach its northernmost or southernmost extreme.
+++
the apparent movement of the Sun's path north or south comes to a stop before reversing direction.
+++
winter solstice: the longest night of the year as well as the shortest daylight.
the moment in time when the earth's axis is angled directly away from the sun
in the northen hemisphere. summer solstice: angled toward the sun.

color spectrum:
red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet

rainbow
when you are seeing a rainbow, you are looking at falling rain.
rainbow occurs only when it is raining in one part of the sky and the
sun is hining in another.

red sky at night, sailor's delight
red sky in the morning, sailor's warning

most weather travels from west to east in the middle latitudes
where most people live.

Rainbow in the morning gives you fair warning

zeitgeist:
the general intellectual, moral, and cultural climate of an era.

cop to: to admit to

moral hazard: the idea that insurance makes people take on greater risk.

ex post facto law:
a law that retroactively changes the legal consequences of an act that was commited
before the enactment of the law.

such as it is
In the form that it has, which is not very good but all that's available,
as in Of course you can stay for supper, such as it is. This expression is
generally used apologetically, indicating that the item in question isn't very good or worth much.
+++
being the kind it is (or was, etc.): used in referring to something in either an apologetic or a derogatory way
+++
in the imperfect state that one sees it; in the less-than-perfect condition in which one sees it.
This is where I live. This is my glorious home, such as it is.
I've worked for days on this report, and I've done the best that I can do.
It's my supreme effort, such as it is.

give credence to someone or something
to consider someone or something as believable or trustworthy. How can you
give credence to a person like Henry? I can't give any credence to Donald. He
 tells lies. Don't give credence to what he says. Please don't give credence
to that newspaper article.

take or put stock in,
to put confidence in or attach importance to; believe; trust:
Considering his general unreliability, I can't take stock in what he has told you.

We're not big on quitting.
I'm not big on snobbery,
We're not big on mushiness, cheesiness, religiousness..

natural key
a candidate key that has a logical relationship to the attributes within that row.
A natural key is sometimes called a domain key.

surrogate key
opposite of natural key
The surrogate key is not derived from application data.

Iatrogenic
 induced inadvertently by a physician or surgeon or by medical treatment or diagnostic
procedures <an iatrogenic rash>

base metal
In chemistry, the term base metal is used informally to refer to a metal that oxidizes or
corrodes relatively easily, and reacts variably with diluted hydrochloric acid (HCl) to form
hydrogen. Examples include iron, nickel, lead and zinc. Copper is considered a base metal as
it oxidizes relatively easily, although it does not react with HCl. It is commonly used in
 opposition to noble metal.

boilerplate : syndicated material supplied especially to weekly newspapers in matrix or plate form
: standardized text : formulaic or hackneyed language 3 : tightly packed icy snow
e.g. Most of the real estate contract was legal boilerplate.

straw man
--> A straw man argument attempts to refute a given proposition by showing that a slightly different or inaccurate form of the proposition (the "straw man") is absurd or ridiculous
--> A straw man argument is an informal fallacy based on misrepresentation of an opponent's position.
To "attack a straw man" is to create the illusion of having refuted a proposition by
substituting a superficially similar proposition (the "straw man"), and refuting it,
 without ever having actually refuted the original position
+++
a stand-in created to draw attention away from the central issue
===
The Straw Man fallacy is committed when a person simply ignores a person's actual position
and substitutes a distorted, exaggerated or misrepresented version of that position.
This sort of "reasoning" has the following pattern:

   1. Person A has position X.
   2. Person B presents position Y (which is a distorted version of X).
   3. Person B attacks position Y.
   4. Therefore X is false/incorrect/flawed.
+++
Examples of Straw Man

   1. Prof. Jones: "The university just cut our yearly budget by $10,000."
      Prof. Smith: "What are we going to do?"
      Prof. Brown: "I think we should eliminate one of the teaching assistant positions.
		That would take care of it."
      Prof. Jones: "We could reduce our scheduled raises instead."
      Prof. Brown: " I can't understand why you want to bleed us dry like that, Jones."

   2. "Senator Jones says that we should not fund the attack submarine program. I disagree entirely.
	I can't understand why he wants to leave us defenseless like that."

   3. Bill and Jill are arguing about cleaning out their closets:
      Jill: "We should clean out the closets. They are getting a bit messy."
      Bill: "Why, we just went through those closets last year. Do we have to clean them out everyday?"
      Jill: "I never said anything about cleaning them out every day. You just want to keep all your
	junk forever, which is just ridiculous."

relay
A relay is a device that allows a small amount of electrical current to control a large amount of current.

Cluster vs. Grid
++
A cluster is a group of computers organized together to perform the same set of functions.
For instance, you may have a cluster running your database software.
++
A grid is a collection of resources. A grid can be composed of multiple clusters.
In Oracle's grid world, you can have a cluster of servers running the database software and a cluster of servers running the Application Server software. Since they are all in the grid, you can move resources from one cluster to another should demands dictate.
+++
In sum, a cluster is one large computer made up of small, similar computers, just
 as R.A.I.D. is one large hard disk made up of small hard disks. Whereas a grid is a bunch of computers that make their unused resources available to select computers (often a single server) over a network.
++
In cluster computing, a bunch of similar (or identical) computers are hooked up locally
(in the same physical location, directly connected with very high speed connections) to operate as
a single computer. The computers that make up the cluster cannot be operated independently
as separate computers. A cluster, as far as any software or other computer is concerned, looks
like essentially one big computer.
++
in grid computing, the computers do not have to be in the same physical location and can be operated
independently. As far as other computers are concerned each computer on the grid is a distinct computer.
Computers on a network have a program on them that allows unused resources (usually processing time and memory)
 to be used by another computer on the network.

middleware: is computer software that connects software components or applications.

An application server, in an n-tier architecture, is a server that hosts an API to expose
business logic and business processes for use by third-party applications.

Business rule is a statement that defines or constrains some aspect of the business. It is
intended to assert business structure or to control or influence the behavior of the business.

business logic:
models real life business objects (such as accounts, loans, itineraries, and inventories)
Business logic comprises:

* business rules that express business policy (such as channels, location, logistics, prices, and products); and
* workflows that are the ordered tasks of passing documents or data from one participant
  (a person or a software system) to anothother

Presentation
a leave-behind document
+++
1. what is my point?
2. why does it matter?
+++
slides are not meant to tell the whole story. they are there to support the speaker.
+++
prepare slids, notes, and handouts.
+++
it is more difficult to process information when it is presented in spoken and
written form at the same time.
+++
questions:
1. how much time do I have?
2. what's the venue like?
3. what time of the day?
4. who is the audience?
5. what's their background?
6. what do they expect of me?
7. why was I asked to speak?
8. what do I want them to do?
9. what visual medium is most appropriate?
10. what is the fundamental purpose of my talk?
11. what is the story here?

I prefer that you didn't mention my name
I'd rather you didn't do that

I don't want to go over my time (regarding presentation)

come down on the side of

availability: the percentage of time that a system operates during its intended duty cycle.
High availability: specifies an amount of time as a percentage of the intended duty
cycle that a system must be functional.
+++
High availability vs. fault tolerance
The difference between fault tolerance and high availability, is this: A fault tolerant
 environment has no service interruption but a significantly higher cost, while a highly
 available environment has a minimal service interruption.
+++
Fault tolerance relies on specialized hardware to detect a hardware fault and instantaneously
switch to a redundant hardware component whether the failed component is a processor, memory board,
 power supply, I/O subsystem, or storage subsystem. Although this cutover is apparently
seamless and offers non-stop service, a high premium is paid in both hardware cost and
performance because the redundant components do no processing. More importantly, the fault
tolerant model does not address software failures, by far the most common reason for downtime.
++++++
High availability views availability not as a series of replicated physical components, but
rather as a set of system-wide, shared resources that cooperate to guarantee essential
services. High availability combines software with industry-standard hardware to minimize
 downtime by quickly restoring essential services when a system, component, or application
fails. While not instantaneous, services are restored rapidly, often in less than a minute.

In all fairness,

Left to their own devices


 be none the wiser:
to fail to understand something;
to not be aware of something:
The health department gave the restaurant a health warning, but customers were none the wiser.
I figured I could just get rid of the stuff, and you'd be none the wiser.

White tea: Unwilted and unoxidized
Yellow tea: Unwilted and unoxidized but allowed to yellow
Green tea: Wilted and unoxidized
Oolong: Wilted, bruised, and partially oxidized
Black tea: Wilted, sometimes crushed, and fully oxidized
Post-fermented tea: Green Tea that has been allowed to ferment/compost

persuasive speaking:
ethos: refers to the credibility of the speaker
pathos: refers to the speaker's emotional intensity
logos: refers to the logic or reasoning behind what a speaker says.

astringent
is a chemical that tends to shrink or constrict body tissues, usually locally after topical
medicinal application.
++++
Astringency is also the dry, puckering mouthfeel caused by tannins found in many fruits such as
blackthorn, chokecherry, bird cherry and persimmon fruits, and banana skins. The tannins denature
 the salivary proteins, causing a rough "sandpapery" sensation in the mouth.
+++
Astringent substances are also found in some red wines and teas.
+++
Astringent medicines cause shrinkage of mucous membranes or exposed tissues and are often used
internally to check discharge of blood serum or mucous secretions. This can happen with a sore
throat, hemorrhages, diarrhea, or with peptic ulcers. Externally applied astringents, which
cause mild coagulation of skin proteins, dry, harden, and protect the skin.

Impromptu speaking
++++++++++++++++++
Impromptu Response Structures

* The first one is called PREP: Position, reason, example, position (PREP). In this model,
first you state your position on the topic, and then you state your reason for taking that position.
 Next, you provide an example or story that supports your reason. Finally, you summarize by restating
your position.
* The second structure is called PEP: Point, Example, Point (PEP). It's easier than the first one
and can be used to answer a wider variety of questions. In this one you start by briefly making
a point or stating a key idea or objective. Then you give an example or story that proves your point.
Then you wrap up by restating the main idea, or your main point. When you are short on time, this is
the way to go.
*** PEP: Point, evidence, point:
Obesity is a serious problem in the United States (Point).
Obesity is associated with over 100,000 deaths per year (Evidence).
The National Institutes of Health reported that about two-thirds of U.S. adults are obese (Point).
**** PEP: point, example, point:
I like to relax and enjoy warm, sunny, tropical beaches for my vacations.
For example, I'll be heading to an all-inclusive resort in Panama this year.
We'll be able to scuba dive, swim, kayak and just chill on the beach and my mother-in-law,
 who happens to live only 25 minutes from the resort, will takes care of my girls.
++++++++++++
* The final structure calls for you to quickly think of a way to divide up your response. I call
 this one divide and conquer. There are a few classic two and three part divisions that you'll want
to memorize such as: past, present, future; problem, solution; cost, benefit; us, them;
ideal, real; low, medium, high. Of course, there are many of these, so try to practice the
 ones that are common to your field. These are easy, you just pick an appropriate division
and then include a little bit for each section.
+++++
what I think I heard you say was
++++
response to rambler: all right then, is this what you meant?
++++
don't go over your time

hashing
Hashing is the transformation of a string of characters into a usually shorter fixed-length value
or key that represents the original string. Hashing is used to index and retrieve items in a
 database because it is faster to find the item using the shorter hashed key than to find it
 using the original value. It is also used in many encryption algorithms.
+++
A hash function is any well-defined procedure or mathematical function which converts a large,
possibly variable-sized amount of data into a small datum, usually a single integer that may
serve as an index into an array. The values returned by a hash function are called hash values,
hash codes, hash sums, or simply hashes.

poetry
++++
foot: a pattern of stressed an unstressed syllables. Has either 2 or 3 syllables.
++++
foot pattern:
++++
iamb, iambic : unstressed stressed
trochee, trochaic : stressed unstressed
spondee, spondaic : stressed stressed
pyrrhic, pyhrric : unstressed unstressed
anapest, anapestic :  unstressed unstressed stressed
dactyl, dactylic : stressed unstressed unstressed
amphibrach, amphibrachic: unstressed stressed unstressed
tribrach, tribrachic : unstressed unstressed unstressed
===============
meter: the number of feet in a line
++++
monometer: 1 foot in a line
dimeter: 2 in a line
trimeter:
tetrameter
pentameter
hexameter
heptameter
octometer
+++++
iambic pentameter: heroic verse

bridging
1. let's look at the big picture
2. I can best answer that by telling you
3. let me give you an example
4. it is also important to remember
5. before we wrap up today, i want to be sure to mention
6. and that's not all
7. there is even more exciting news

transitive closure:
in computer science the concept of transitive closure can be thought of as constructing
a data structure that makes it possible to answer reachability questions [1]. That is,
can one get from node a to node d in one or more hops? A binary relation tells you only
 that node a is connected to node b, and that node b is connected to node c, etc. After
the transitive closure is constructed, as depicted in the following figure, in an O(1)
operation one may determine that node d is reachable from node a. The data structure is
typically stored as a matrix, so if matrix[1][4] = 1, then it is the case that node 1
can reach node 4 through one or more hops.
+++
Transitive closure can be thought of as establishing a data structure that makes
it possible to solve reachability questions (can I get to x from y?) efficiently.
After the preprocessing of constructing the transitive closure, all reachability
queries can be answered in constant time by simply reporting a matrix entry. Transitive
closure is fundamental in propagating the consequences of modified attributes of a graph G.
 For example, consider the graph underlying any spreadsheet model, where the vertices are
cells and there is an edge from cell $i$ to cell j if the result of cell j depends on
cell i. When the value of a given cell is modified, the values of all reachable cells
must also be updated. The identity of these cells is revealed by the transitive closure
of G. Many database problems reduce to computing transitive closures, for analogous reasons.
+++
related to directed graph
+++
Several graph-based algorithms have been proposed in the literature to compute
the transitive closure of a directed graph
+++
transitive closure is a data structure for answering reachability questions:
can I get from point A to point B? usually in the form of a matrix,
e.g., matrix[1][4]=1 means I can go from point 1 to point 4.
++++
finding all the objects that can be reached from a certain root object.

analemma:
the figure-8 path that the sun makes in the sky.
+++
if you could record the position of the sun in the sky at the same time every day,
let's say sometime around noon and subtracting one hour if you are observing daylight
 saving time, you would notice that the sun takes a rather strange path.
+++

coded character set (character code)
a mapping between a set of characters and a set of integers.
++++
character encoding scheme
a mapping between a coded character set and a set of byte sequences
+++
charset
the combination of a coded character set and a character-encoding scheme

fault-tolerance
replication:
Providing multiple identical instances of the same system or subsystem, directing tasks
or requests to all of them in parallel, and choosing the correct result on the basis of a quorum;
++++
redundancy: Providing multiple identical instances of the same system and switching to one
of the remaining instances in case of a failure (failover);

storage area network (SAN)
is an architecture to attach remote computer storage devices (such as disk arrays, tape libraries,
and optical jukeboxes) to servers in such a way that the devices appear as locally attached to
the operating system.
++++
Network-attached storage (NAS)
vs SAN: uses file-based protocols such as NFS or SMB/CIFS where it is clear that the storage is remote,
and computers request a portion of an abstract file rather than a disk block.
is file-level computer data storage connected to a computer network providing data access to
heterogeneous network clients.
++++
difference
A NAS is a single storage device that operate on data files, while a SAN is a local
 network of multiple devices that operate on disk blocks.
+++
difference
SAN: uses Fibre Channel interconnects (wire), encapsulated SCSI (protocol)
NAS: uses Ethernet and TCP/IP

Java generics
allow "a type or method to operate on objects of various types while providing compile-time type safety
++++
allows the programmer to specify the type that will be accepted by an object.
classic example: collection framework
by default, a collection can accept any object.
generics allows the programmer to create a collection that accepts only
a certain of objects. This allows the compiler to check the type correctness
of the program at compile-time.
+++
allow programmer to specify concrete types to general purpose classes and methods
that operated on Object.
allow you to limit what kind of objects can be inserted into the collection.
+++
Generic programming is a style of computer programming in which algorithms are written
in terms of to-be-specified-later types that are then instantiated when needed for specific
types provided as parameters.
====
allow you to write code that operates on objects whose types have not been determined.
=====
called generics in Java and C#, template in C++, parameterized type by gang of four.
+++
type erasure:
When a generic type is instantiated, the compiler translates those types by a technique called
type erasure  a process where the compiler removes all information related to type parameters
 and type arguments within a class or method. Type erasure enables Java applications that use
generics to maintain binary compatibility with Java libraries and applications that were
 created before generics.
e.g. ArrayList<String> is translated to ArrayList, which is called the raw type.
raw type: a generic class without any type arguments.
++++
A class is generic if it declares one or more type variables. These type variables are known
as the type parameters of the class.

canonical:
Authoritative or standard; conforming to an accepted rule or procedure.
When referring to programming, canonical means conforming to well-established patterns or rules.
When referring to IP addressing, canonical means the authoritative host name stored
in a DNS database that all of an IP address aliases resolve to.
+++
reduced to the simplest and most significant form possible without loss of generality,

canonicalization
in computer science, canonicalization (abbreviated c14n, where 14 represents the number of letters
between the C and the N) is a process for converting data that has more than one possible
representation into a "standard" canonical representation.

bookmarklet
A bookmarklet is an applet, a small computer application, stored as the URL of a bookmark
 in a web browser or as a hyperlink on a web page. The term is a portmanteau of
the terms bookmark and applet. Whether bookmarklet utilities are stored as bookmarks
or hyperlinks, they are designed to add one-click functionality to a browser or web
 page. When clicked, a bookmarklet performs some function, one of a wide variety
such as a search query or data extraction. Usually the applet is a JavaScript program.

Objects In Mirror Are Closer Than They Appear
passenger-side side-view mirror
passenger-side mirrors are convex to allow the drivers to get a wide-angle view of the road
-- behind them and to the sides -- but at the same time, causes objects to appear more distant.
A flat mirror used on driver's side mirrors, on the other hand, would not provide a wider view
of the road.

ODBC
a standard that enables applications to interact with different db. a wrapper around
databases that makes all db behave in a consistent and clearly defined fashion.
It accomplishes this by using s/w drivers that two primary functions. First, they
encapsulate any native db features and hide these from the client. Second, they provide
a common language for interacting with the db.
ODBC client applications do not interact with db directly. Instead, they interact with
ODBC data sources. a data source is logical db that includes the driver (each db type
has its own driver) and info on how to connect to the db.

true to form: exactly as expected;

++++++++ GRAMMAR ++++++++++++
case: describe the syntactical relationship of a noun/pronoun to other words in the sentence.
case: nominative, possessive, objective

grammatical mood: indicates a speaker's attitude toward his use of the verb.
	: indicative, imperative, subjunctive moods

subjunctive mood: (the verb is in the subjunctive mood)
	express wishes/request/command or a statement contrary to fact.
	no present perfect subjunctive form.
present tense: (that) I/you/he/she/it do
	(that) I/you/he/she/it be
past tense: (if) I/you/he/she/it did
	(if) I/you/he/she/it were
past perfect: (if) I/you/he/she/it had done
	(if) I/you/he/she/it had been

wiki
Wiki is a piece of server software that allows users to freely create and edit
 Web page content using any Web browser. Wiki supports hyperlinks and has a simple
text syntax for creating new pages and crosslinks between internal pages on the fly.
Wiki is unusual among group communication mechanisms in that it allows the
 organization of contributions to be edited in addition to the content itself.
===
an editable web site, where you can add pages and update existing pages
inside your browser.

copy-on-write
an optimizing strategy in computer programming. here's how it works.
let's say multiple processes want to access a resource. instead of giving
each process a copy of the resource, you give them a pointer to the same resource.
when one of the processes tries to modify the resource, you create a private copy
for that process. this prevents the changes from becoming visible to everyone else.

shadow paging
a copy-on-write technique for avoiding in-place updates of pages. when a page is to
be modified, a shadow page is allocated. The shadow page is then modified (the
original page is unchanged). when the shadow page is ready to become persistent,
all pages that refer to the original are updated to refer to the new replacement page.

suit your fancy
tickle your fancy
catch my fancy
strike my fancy
suit one's fancy
take a fancy to something

chassis:
Trailer or wheeled unit on which a container is placed in order to move container over the road.

CFS/CFS	A kind of cargo movement by container. Delivered loose at origin point with vanning
by carrier, devanned by carrier at destination, and picked up loose at destination.
+++
CFS/CY	A kind of cargo movement by container. Loose cargo received at origin point,
loaded in a container by carrier, then delivered intact at destination.
++++
CY/CFS	Cargo loaded in a full container by a shipper at origin, delivered to pier facility
 at destination, and then devanned by carrier for loose pick up.
++++
CY/CY	Cargo loaded by shipper in a full container at origin and delivered to carrier's
terminal at destination for pick up intact by consignee.
+++
CY	Container Yard. Point at which carrier hands over to or receive laden containers
from merchant haulier. Commonly where mode of transport changes e.g. a sea port, feeder
 terminal, barge terminal or rail ramp.

http://www.maerskline.com/link/?page=brochure&path=/glossary/a

hypervisor,
also called virtual machine monitor (VMM), is a piece of software/hardware platform-virtualization
software that allows multiple operating systems to run on a host computer concurrently.
+++
Type 1 (or native, bare-metal) hypervisors are software systems that run directly on the
host's hardware to control the hardware and to monitor guest operating-systems.
A guest operating system thus runs on another level above the hypervisor.
examples include VMware ESX Server, Microsoft Hyper-V
+++
Type 2 (or hosted) hypervisors are software applications running within a conventional
operating-system environment. Considering the hypervisor layer as a distinct software
layer, guest operating systems thus run at the third level above the hardware.
Examples include VMware Server (formerly known as GSX), VMware Workstation,
 VMware Fusion, the open source QEMU, Microsoft Virtual PC and Microsoft Virtual Server products,

========= cloud computing ==========
cloud computing
The cloud is a metaphor for "the Internet."
cloud computing means using the Internet to provide your programs and store your data.
+++
a general term for anything that involves delivering hosted services over the Internet.
These services are broadly divided into three categories: Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS),
Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS).
+++
A cloud service has three distinct characteristics that differentiate it from traditional
hosting. It is sold on demand, typically by the minute or the hour; it is elastic -- a
user can have as much or as little of a service as they want at any given time; and
the service is fully managed by the provider (the consumer needs nothing but a personal
computer and Internet access).
+++
an elastic, pay per use computing architecture and model
+++
Infrastructure-as-a-Service like Amazon Web Services provides virtual server instances
with unique IP addresses and blocks of storage on demand. Customers use the provider's
application program interface (API) to start, stop, access and configure their virtual
servers and storage
+++
Platform-as-a-service in the cloud is defined as a set of software and product
 development tools hosted on the provider's infrastructure. Developers create
applications on the provider's platform over the Internet. PaaS providers may
use APIs, website portals or gateway software installed on the customer's computer.
 Force.com, (an outgrowth of Salesforce.com) and GoogleApps are examples of PaaS.
+++
In the software-as-a-service cloud model, the vendor supplies the hardware infrastructure,
 the software product and interacts with the user through a front-end portal. SaaS is
a very broad market. Services can be anything from Web-based email to inventory control
and database processing. Because the service provider hosts both the application and
the data, the end user is free to use the service from anywhere.
====
A public cloud is one in which a cloud service provider makes resources such as servers,
 storage, networking and, possibly, applications available to users over the Internet.
example: Amazon's EC2
++
Private clouds take two forms: internal clouds and external private clouds. An internal cloud
is inside your data center (on-premises), giving IT managers complete control over the available resources.
example: Ubuntu Enterprise Cloud and Microsoft Azure are examples of packaged software for creating internal clouds.
+++
External private clouds combine characteristics of internal clouds and public clouds. They are like
 public clouds because they are off-premises. But unlike public clouds, applications run on dedicated
 servers, and the cloud provider has built container walls around the external private cloud to make
it more secure than public clouds. example: Amazon's Virtual Private Cloud
=====
cloud computing (another definition)
Cloud computing is a category of computing solutions in which a technology and/or service lets
users access computing resources on demand, as needed, whether the resources are physical or
virtual, dedicated, or shared, and no matter how they are accessed (via a direct connection,
LAN, WAN, or the Internet). The cloud is often characterized by self-service interfaces that
let customers acquire resources when needed as long as needed.
+++
a computing solution that allows the users to access computing resources on demand
regardless of capacity or duration.
+++++
a way to increase capacity or add capabilities on the fly without investing in new infrastructure,
training new personnel, or licensing new software. Cloud computing encompasses any subscription-based
or pay-per-use service that, in real time over the Internet, extends IT's existing capabilities.
+++
SaaS
This type of cloud computing delivers a single application through the browser to thousands of
customers using a multitenant architecture. On the customer side, it means no upfront investment in
 servers or software licensing; on the provider side, with just one app to maintain, costs are
low compared to conventional hosting.
+++
utility computing
offer storage and virtual servers that IT can access on demand.
+++
Platform-as-a-service
delivers development environments as a service.
You build your own applications that run on the provider's infrastructure and are delivered to your users
via the Internet from the provider's servers.
--> provide a cloud-based application development environment. allow developers to build applications
that run in a cloud.
--> sits between IaaS and SaaS models.
+++
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2)
allows users to rent virtual computers on which to run their own computer applications.
----
infrastructure as a service, also hardware as a service
a provision model in which an organization outsources the equipment used to support operations,
including storage, hardware, servers and networking components. The service provider owns
the equipment and is responsible for housing, running and maintaining it. The client typically
 pays on a per-use basis.
-- virtual private cloud
the implementation of a private cloud in a public cloud environment.
VPC provides secure data transfer between a private enterprise and a public cloud provider, ensuring that each customer's data remains isolated from every other customer's data both in transit and inside the cloud provider's network.
-- behave as if it is within a corporate firewall.

container: a run-time environment for components.

servlet: purpose is to receive HTTP requests, generate dynamic data (usually in HTML),
and delver an HTTP response.
Servlets are pure Java objects that generate HTML by writing it to a stream. The files
do not contain any HTML tags; they simply contain Java code which write out HTML (as strings)
 to produce the page that is sent to the user's browser.

JSP: an HTML page containing embedded java code. an HTML page embedded with java code.

JSPs and servlets are two different ways to accomplish the same goal: generating dynamic HTML pages
 using Java code. One puts Java code in your HTML, and one puts HTML in your Java code.
Functionally, they are equivalent. In fact, under the covers, the web server takes a JSP and
converts it to the corresponding servlet and dynamically compiles it.

JSPs live in an object called a container, which is essentially a server

eclipse

regular JAR vs external JAR

regular JAR: part of the application and get deployed with it.
external JAR: resides elsewhere. does not get deployed with it. you expect it to be
available in the prod environment.

FSB: front-side bus
is the bus that carries data between the CPU and the northbridge.
+++
The northbridge, also known as a memory controller hub (MCH) or an integrated memory
controller (IMC) in Intel systems (AMD, VIA, SiS and others usually use 'northbridge'),
 is one of the two chips in the core logic chipset on a PC motherboard, the other being
the southbridge.
The northbridge typically handles communications among the CPU, RAM, BIOS ROM,
 and PCI Express (or AGP) video cards,
+++
The Southbridge, also known as an I/O Controller Hub (ICH) or a Platform Controller Hub (PCH)
 in Intel systems (AMD, VIA, SiS and others usually use 'southbridge'), is a chip that
implements the "slower" capabilities of the motherboard in a northbridge/southbridge chipset
computer architecture.
+++
The southbridge can usually be distinguished from the northbridge by not being directly
 connected to the CPU. Rather, the northbridge ties the southbridge to the CPU.

do a number on someone/something
to damage or harm someone or something
to treat someone very badly or unfairly

So much for that.
That is the end of that.; We will not be dealing with that anymore.

HTML 4 has been reformulated into XHTML 1.0. XHTML is HTML 4 written as an XML application.

DOCTYPE: used to specify the HTML version of the web page. allows the browser to render
the content correctly
The Doctype is an xml specific item that tells the xml parser where to look
for the dtd consistency rules for our xml document.

Design by Contract (DbC) or Programming by Contract is an approach to designing computer
software. It prescribes that software designers should define formal, precise and verifiable
interface specifications for software components, which extend the ordinary definition
of abstract data types with preconditions, postconditions and invariants.
+++
preconditions: what must be true when the method is called
postconditions: what must be true after the method completes
class invariant: what must be true about each instance of a class
+++
design by contract says that there are 3 concepts about any piece of code:
preconditions, postconditions, and invariants
+++
precondition: expect a certain condition to be true on entry
postcondition: guarantee a certain condition on exit
invariant: maintain a certain condition
--- 3 questions about the contract:
what does the contract expect?
what does the contract guarantee?
what does the contract maintain?

virtual memory
An imaginary memory area supported by some operating systems
in conjunction with the hardware. You can think of virtual memory as an alternate set of
 memory addresses. Programs use these virtual addresses rather than real addresses to store
instructions and data. When the program is actually executed, the virtual addresses are
converted into real memory addresses.
The purpose of virtual memory is to enlarge the address space, the set of addresses a program
 can utilize. For example, virtual memory might contain twice as many addresses as main memory.
 A program using all of virtual memory, therefore, would not be able to fit in main memory all
 at once. Nevertheless, the computer could execute such a program by copying into main memory
those portions of the program needed at any given point during execution.
To facilitate copying virtual memory into real memory, the operating system divides virtual
 memory into pages, each of which contains a fixed number of addresses. Each page is stored
on a disk until it is needed. When the page is needed, the operating system copies it from
disk to main memory, translating the virtual addresses into real addresses.
+++
 gives an application program the impression that it has contiguous working memory
(an address space), while in fact it may be physically fragmented and may even
 overflow on to disk storage.

thrashing
In systems that use virtual memory, the resulting condition of a hard drive being used
 excessively for virtual memory because the physical memory (i.e., RAM) is full.
(The process of moving data into and out of virtual memory also is called swapping pages.)

ecliptic
the plane of the earth's orbit around the sun.
also: the path of the ecliptic can be conceptualized as the path of the sun
against the background of the sky.

solar day
the time it takes for the earth to complete one rotation with respect to the sun (24 hr)
the length of the solar day fluctuates throughout the year.
the average length is 24 hr: mean solar day

sidereal day
the time it takes for the earth to complete one rotation with respect to the stars (23 hr 56 minutes)

equation of time
the difference between the true solar day and the mean solar day
fictitious mean sun crosses the prime meridian at noon universal time
====
equation of time
The difference in time between what your watch reads and the position of the sun
(clock time vs. sun time) is called the Equation-of-Time. If you are in the northern
 hemisphere and the sun's position is to the east of where your watch indicates it
would be, the Equation-of-Time is negative. If the sun is to the west, the Equation-of-Time is positive.

tease out something also tease something out
to carefully separate particular facts from a great deal of information.eg What has always
been interesting for me is how you can tease out the reasons for an event as you review its
history. After a while, you learn how to tease out the errors hidden in texts.

in short order : very quickly

we are all the better for it

+++++
HTML: a language for structure (HTML 4.0): define the structure of a web page.
CSS: a language for presentation. specify how the web page should be displayed
latest HTML: 4.01
is a style sheet language used to describe the presentation semantics (the look and formatting)
of a document written in a markup language.
A style sheet language, or style language, is a computer language that expresses the presentation of structured documents.

+++
browsers have two modes for displaying HTML: quirks mode for old HTML and standards
mode for HTML 4.01

DOCTYPE: document type definition. specify the HTML version of the web page.
this allows the browser to render the page correctly.
DOCTYPE: used to tell the browser which version of HTML your web page is written in.
strict: fully compliant HTML 4.01
transitional: includes display-oriented elements and attributes (legacy code). allow legacy HTML.
display-oriented elements are mostly deprecated. that is now CSS's job.
<meta> tag: specify character encoding (to be precise: charaacter set)
+++
advantage of standards compliant: web pages will display more quickly and with fewer
display differences among browsers.

JTA (Java Transaction API):
allows distributed transactions to be done across multiple XA resources in a Java environment.
specifies standard Java interfaces between a transaction manager and the parties involved in
a distributed transaction system: the resource manager, the application server, and the transactional
applications.
+++
In XA architecture, a transaction mgr (transaction processing monitor) coordinates the transaction
across multiple resources. Each resource has its own mgr. App communicates with transaction mgr
to begin, commit, or rollback transactions. App communicates with resource mgr to modify the resource.
The javax.transaction.UserTransaction interfacer allows app to control transaction boundaries
programmatically
+++
allows you to demarcate transactions in a manner that is independent of the transaction manager implementation.
+++
a java implementation of the XA spec.
---
A transaction manager (transaction coordinator) implements the JTA interface javax.transaction.TransactionManager
A resource implements the JTA interface javax.transaction.xa.XAResource

JTS (Java Transaction Service):
specifies the implementation of a transaction manager that supports the Java Transaction API (JTA)
specification at the high level and implements the Java mapping of the OMG
 Object Transaction Service (OTS) specification at the low level.

j2ee architecture
data -> business logic (EJB) -> presentation logic (servlet/JSP) -> user interface (HTML)

anonymous class:
a way of defining and instantiating a class inside a method, in the place where it is used.
the semantics require that this class either implement an interface or extend a superclass.
a convenient shorthand for creating listeners for GUI components.
+++++++++++
Anonymous classes are used to create an ad-hoc implementation of an interface or an abstract class, like so:
Runnable run = new Runnable() {
    @Override
    public void run() {
        runThisThing(someArgument);
    }
};

catch-as-catch-can
Using or making do with whatever means are available
using any method or opportunity that comes to hand

ultracrepidarian
giving opinions on something beyond his or her knowledge.
One who speaks above his level of knowledge, experience or expertise.

wheelhouse: area of expertise
Singing this song in that key is right in your wheelhouse.

virtualization
consolidate server infrastructure, reduce cost, reduce # of servers.
provide quick provisioning capabilities


Java Connector Architecture (JCA)
provides an architecture for connecting application servers to enterprise
information system (EIS). EIS: any product that manages the information infrastructure
of an enterprise. examples: ERP, mainframe transaction processing monitors, legacy db.

===============
JAXP
provide a generic way to access any parser

SAX
an event-based API for parsing XML docuents. it defines various events that are
triggered while an XML parser is reading an xml document.
a custom handler can listen for these events and process the document
the handler implements the relevant callback methods and responds to various events
push model. data is pushed to the application.
When you use a SAX parser you pass a handler object to the SAX parser. This handler
object has a method for every "event" you want to handle, during the traversal of the XML document.
--> a callback-based API

SAX uses a "push" model, and StAX uses a "pull" model.
The SAX push model means that it is the SAX parser that calls your handler,
The StAX pull model means that it is your "handler" class that calls the parser,

SAX: has Schema Validation  ; no subparsing; no XML writing
StAX: No Schema Validation; Subparsing / Delegation possible; Support for XML Writing

=============

a platform is a combination of hardware and software necessary to run applications.

===
SQL

select name from table where EXISTS (select * from a where item = 'blah')
if (select * from a where item = 'blah') returns any rows, the exists clause is true

select item from antique where price >= ALL (select price from antique);

The subquery returns a list of all Prices in the Antiques table, and the outer query goes
 through each row of the Antiques table, and if its Price is greater than or equal to every
(or ALL) Prices in the list, it is listed, giving the highest priced
Item. The reason "=" must be used is that the highest

select custID from orders where regionID != "E" and discount > ANY
 (select discount from orders where regionID = "E" and discount > 3)

This query lists the customers who are getting discounts greater than any offered in the East region.

=======

In XPath, there are seven kinds of nodes: element, attribute, text, namespace, processing-instruction,
comment, and document nodes.

chestnut
An old, frequently repeated joke, story, or song.

double truck
refers to a pair of facing pages, usually in a newspaper  or magazine, with content that
stretches over both pages.

MIME: used to send multipart emails.
SMTP: used to deliver email messages.
POP3: store-and-forward service where messages are stored on the server until the client
log in to receive them. the msgs are then downloaded to the client and deleted from the server.
IMAP (internet message access protocol): client views email on a server. requires continuous
interaction between client and server.

inheritance should not be used for the sole purpose of code reuse (implementation inheritance).
need to think about substitutability. do the subclass and the superclass have a subtype relationship?
otherwise, should use delegation.
public inheritance represents an "is-a" relationship and delegation represents a "has-a" relationship,

on-board diagnostics reader (OBD) for cars
blue smoke: burning smoke
white smoke: coolant leak
black smoke: fuel calibration is off

bring something to bear:
to use influence, arguments, or threats in order to change a situation (often + on )
Pressure should be brought to bear on the illegal regime and support given to the resistance.
to use something to achieve a result
She said that they were attempting to bring additional pressure to bear on the government.
It will be a major issue for the community because such strong arguments can be brought to bear on both sides of it.

The meeting ran over by 30 minutes.

Use parentheses when you want to enclose something that is incidental to the sentence, something that
	is background or almost unnecessary.
Use dashes when you want to enclose or set off something that deserves a lot of attention, is
	meant to interrupt your sentence, or already has commas or parentheses in it.
Use commas to enclose things that belong firmly in the flow of your sentence.

JAXB: java architecture for XML Binding
allows you to create an XML document from Java objects and to create
a Java representation of an XML document

xmlbeans: a Java-to-XML binding framework
-- generate java classes from XML schema

St. Elmo's fire
a type of continuous electric spark called a "glow discharge."
When it occurs naturally, we call it St. Elmo's Fire, but when it occurs inside a glass tube, we call it a neon sign.
seen during thunderstorms when the ground below the storm is electrically charged, and there is high voltage
 in the air between the cloud and the ground. The voltage tears apart the air molecules and the gas begins to glow.
St. Elmo's Fire is plasma. color is blue
St. Elmo's Fire is exactly what's happening in neon tubes -- essentially a continuous spark.
A neon tube is simply St. Elmo's Fire contained in glass.
is a weather phenomenon involving a gap in electrical charge. It's like lightning, but not quite.
St. Elmo's Fire is plasma, or ionized air that emits a glow
But while lightening is the movement of electricity from a charged cloud  to the ground, St. Elmo's Fire
 is simply sparking, something like a shot of electrons into the air. It's a corona discharge, and it occurs when
there is a significant imbalance in electrical charge, causing molecules to tear apart, sometimes resulting in a slight hissing sound.
caused by a dramatic difference in charge between the air and a charged object,

lightening is the movement of electricity from a charged cloud  to the ground,

Oracle JDBC drivers
JDBC OCI client-side driver: This is a JDBC Type 2 driver that uses Java native methods to call
entrypoints in an underlying C library. That C library, called OCI (Oracle Call Interface),
interacts with an Oracle database. The JDBC OCI driver requires an Oracle client installation of
 the same version as the driver.
+++
JDBC Thin client-side driver: This is a JDBC Type 4 driver that uses Java to connect directly to Oracle.
 It implements Oracle's SQL*Net Net8 and TTC adapters using its own TCP/IP based Java socket implementation.
 The JDBC Thin driver does not require Oracle client software to be installed, but does
require the server to be configured with a TCP/IP listener.

String.split() returns an array (String[]) and StringTokenizer returns one token at a time.
StringTokenizer  is legacy. split is more powerful, uses regex
StringTokenizer  does not handle empty strings well. delimiter is one char

full text search: examine all the words in a document.
The indexing stage will scan the text of all the documents and build a list of search terms,
 often called an index, but more correctly named a concordance.
text indexing; full-text indexing
+++
concordance: an alphabetical index of all the words in a text, with their immediate contexts.

+++
JAVA NIO

channel, buffer, selector

data is read from channels into buffers, and written from buffers to channels.
A Selector allows a single thread to handle multiple Channels.
allows asynchronous IO.

Azure (microsoft): platform as a service: development and hosting of web apps, pay-per-use

deduplication: look for repeating patterns at the block and bit levels.  when multiple instances
of the same pattern are discovered, the system stores a single copy of the pattern.
is a method of reducing storage needs by eliminating redundant data.

s-expression (symbol expression)
a list-based data structures that represent semi-structured data.
e.g., (a (b c))
S-expressions are able to represent complex, structured data without requiring additional meta-data describing the structure
they are recursive
a data structure for representing complex data.

+++
test fixture
A test fixture is something used to consistently test some item, device, or piece of software.
a test fixture is all the things that must be in place in order to run a test and expect a particular outcome.
frequently fixtures are created by handling setUp() and tearDown()  events of the unit testing framework. In setUp()  one would create the expected state for the test, and in tearDown()  it would clean up what had been set up.

Four phases of a test:
   1. Set up -- Setting up the test fixture.
   2. Exercise -- Interact with the system under test.
   3. Verify -- Determine whether the expected outcome has been obtained.
   4. Tear down -- Tear down the test fixture to return to the original state.

test harness
a test harness or automated test framework is a collection of software and test data configured
 to test a program unit by running it under varying conditions and monitoring its behavior and outputs.
====
The software, tools, samples of data input and output, and configurations are all referred
to collectively as a test harness.

a cluster is a group of computers that work together to form what appears to
the users as a single system.

RAC (real application cluster): a cluster of computers with access to a common db.

load balancing: a technique for minimizing response time and maximing throughput
by spreading requests among multiple resources.

performance:refers to the system throughput under a particular workload
for a defined period of time.

How do you know the message came from me?
1. I encrypt the message first with my private key
2. then I encrypt it again using your public key.
You:
1. you decrypt it first using your private key.
2. then you decrypt it again using my public key

to vouch for someone else's public key, you use your private key to sign
that person's public key.

monovision
With monovision, you wear a contact lens on one eye to correct your distance vision and a
 contact lens on your other eye to correct your near vision. The lens for distance vision
is usually worn on your dominant eye.

speakers running overtime
run over my time slot
go over his allotted time
keep to the schedule

what gets tracked, gets improved

Class of service (CoS):
is a way of managing traffic in a network by grouping similar types of traffic
(for example, e-mail, streaming video, voice, large document file transfer) together
 and treating each type as a class with its own level of service priority. Unlike Quality
of Service (QoS) traffic management, Class of Service technologies do not guarantee a level
 of service in terms of bandwidth and delivery time; they offer a "best-effort." On the other
hand, CoS technology is simpler to manage and more scalable as a network grows in structure
 and traffic volume. One can think of CoS as "coarsely-grained" traffic control and QoS as
 "finely-grained" traffic control.
+++++++++++
a form of priority queuing that has been used in a number of communication and networking protocols.
It is a way of classifying and prioritizing packets based on application type
++++
CoS is a queuing discipline while QoS covers a wider range of techniques to manage bandwidth and network resources.
+++
As an analogy, CoS is like classifying packages for delivery via regular mail, second-day delivery,
or next-day delivery. QoS is what the delivery company does to ensure your packages are delivered
on time (such as package tracking, air transport, door-to-door pickup and drop-off).

coupling: the degree to which a module depends on another module.
cohesion: a measure of how strongly-related or focused the responsibilities of a single module are
--> cohesion: the degree to which a component's responsibilities form a meaningful unit;
--> Cohesion refers to the relatedness of the data and methods within a class.
Good cohesion is desired within object-oriented programming so that each class has a well defined purpose and therefore contains the variables and methods necessary to fulfill that purpose.
low coupling often correlates with high cohesion

handle criticism
Diffuse Criticism Quickly by Saying Thanks
A short, a simple way to quickly diffuse criticism is to say, Thank-you. I like to say,
 Thanks for taking the time to give me feedback. I sincerely appreciate it. If you sense that you
 are in control of your emotions, you might also approach the criticism with curiosity. Thanks
 for letting me know; can you tell me more so I can understand better?
You could also say, Can you help me understand why you think that. Can you give me specific
 examples? What was your impression when If you are open to learning, these questions
 can help you modify your behavior.

The HTTP transport does not provide guaranteed message delivery. The SOAP protocol is not
 specific to any transport, so SOAP messages in theory can be bound to any transport.
JMS provides a highly reliable transport that can guarantee message delivery.

double-dispatch: means that the operation that gets executed depends on the types
of two objects.

"Burgle" is a back-formation (that is, a word formed by removing a suffix or prefix) from "burglar."

Hobson's choice: : an apparently free choice when there is no real alternative
: the necessity of accepting one of two or more equally objectionable alternatives
a free choice in which only one option is offered

each: execute a block of code for each element of a list
map: apply a function to each element of a list and return a new list of the same size.
reduce/fold: combine all the elements of a list using a function and return a single value.

MapReduce
from lisp:
map:
let's say we have a square function: square(x) = x*x

calling map square [1,2,3,4,5] will return [1,4,9,16,25], as map will go through the
 list, and apply the function square to each element.

reduce/fold:
folding of the list [1,2,3,4,5] with the addition operator would result in 15, the
 sum of the elements of the list [1,2,3,4,5]

In Lisp, a map takes as input a function and a sequence of values. It then applies
 the function to each value in the sequence. A reduce combines all the elements of a
sequence using a binary operation. For example, it can use "+" to add up all the elements in the sequence.

mapreduce of google:

map: takes an input pair and produces a set of intermediate key/value pairs.
reduce: accepts an intermediate key and a set of values for that key. It merges together these
 values to form a possibly smaller set of values.
---
All values with the same key are presented to a single reduce task.

e.g.
consider the problem of counting the number of occurrences of each word in a large collection of documents:

map(String key, String value):
// key: document name
// value: document contents
for each word w in value:
  EmitIntermediate(w, "1");

reduce(String key, Iterator values):
// key: a word
// values: a list of counts
int result = 0;
for each v in values:
  result += ParseInt(v);
Emit(AsString(result));

--more:
there is a intermediate (shuffle) step between map and reduce where the output of map is grouped by key;
--example:
map emits: {'hello': {count:1}}, {'world': {count: 1}}, {'hello': {count: 1}}
shuffle produces:
{'hello': [{count: 1},{count: 1}]) , {'world': [{count:1}])
the output of shuffle goes to reduce
--
Map(k1,v1)  list(k2,v2)
intermediate: list(k2,v2) -> list(k2, list(v2))
Reduce(k2, list (v2))  list(v3)

The map function emits each word plus an associated count of occurrences ("1" in this example).
 The reduce function sums together all the counts emitted for a particular word.
Here, each document is split in words, and each word is counted initially with a "1" value by the Map
 function, using the word as the result key. The framework puts together all the pairs with the same
 key and feeds them to the same call to Reduce, thus this function just needs to sum all of its
 input values to find the total appearances of that word.

JVM heap: an area of memory used for dynamic memory allocation. divided into 3 generations:
    * The young generation stores short-lived objects that are created and immediately garbage collected.
    * Objects that persist longer are moved to the old generation (also called the tenured generation).
    * The permanent generation (or permgen) is used for class definitions and associated metadata.

page cache / disk cache
a buffer of disk-backed pages kept in main memory (RAM) by the operating system for quicker access.

model
a system of abstractions that describes selected aspects of a domain and can be used to solve
problems related to that domain

tactical solution: quick, simple, temporary
strategic solution: complex, need more time, lasting, requires planning

coarse-grained: large loads, efficient, not convenient
fine-grained: small loads, not efficient, convenient

materialized view
the query result is cached  as a concrete table that may be updated from the original base
 tables from time to time. This enables much more efficient access, at the cost of some data
being potentially out-of-date. It is most useful in data warehousing scenarios, where frequent
 queries of the actual base tables can be extremely expensive.
A materialized view is a database object that contains the results of a query. They are local
 copies of data located remotely, or are used to create summary tables based on aggregations
 of a table's data. Materialized views, which store data based on remote tables are also, know as snapshots.
the material view is manifested as a real table.
==> regular view:
a view is a virtual table representing the result of a database query. Whenever an ordinary view's
 table is queried or updated, the DBMS converts these into queries or updates against the underlying
 base tables

xpath: a language for referencing particular parts of XML document.

on point
Directly applicable or dispositive of the matter under consideration.
A statute or case is "on point" if it has direct application to the facts of a case currently
 before a tribunal for determination.

literal
 is a notation for representing a fixed value in source code. Almost all programming languages have
 notations for atomic values such as integers, floating-point numbers, strings, and booleans;
 some also have notations for elements of enumerated types and compound values such as arrays, records, and objects.
--> something that represents a fixed value, such as string, integer, boolean, etc in source code
--> A string literal is the representation of a string value within the source code of a computer program.
--
In some object-oriented languages (like JaveScript), objects can also be represented by literals.
--> {name:"cat",length:57}


java exceptions:
use checked exceptions for recoverable conditions
use runtime exceptions for programming errors

DAO
hide all details of data storage from the rest of the application.
act as an intermediary between your application and the database. They move data back and forth between Java objects and database records.
allow ripple effects from possible changes to the persistence mechanism to be confined to a specific area.

java synchronization
synchronization is required for reliable inter-thread communications as well as for mutual exclusion.
when multiple threads share mutable data, each thread that reads or writes the data must perform
synchronization. Otherwise, there is no guarantee that one thread's changes will be visible to another.

Code refactoring is the process of changing a computer program's source code without modifying its
 external functional behavior in order to improve some of the nonfunctional attributes of the software.
 Advantages include improved code readability and reduced complexity to improve the maintainability of
 the source code, as well as a more expressive internal architecture or object model to improve extensibility.

Four stages of competence
Unconscious Incompetence
Conscious Incompetence
Conscious Competence
Unconscious Competence

second-order incompetence, which means that a novice at a particular skill is so unskilled
that they don't even realize how unskilled they really are. This leads beginners to greatly
 overestimate their own ability. In many cases, it can lead a beginner to be more confident
 in their own skill than an expert.

WebSocket is a technology providing for bi-directional, full-duplex communications channels, over
 a single Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) socket, designed to be implemented in web browsers
and web servers but can be utilised by any client or server application.
part of the HTML5 initiative
+++
introduced the WebSocket JavaScript interface, which defines a full-duplex single socket connection
 over which messages can be sent between client and server. The WebSocket standard attempts to
simplify much of the complexity around bi-directional web communication and connection management.
=====
WebSockets represent an alternative to Comet and Ajax.
+++
This specification defines an API that enables Web pages to use the WebSocket protocol for two-way
 communication with a remote host.
++++
provides for full duplex communication between a browser and a server

the original model of the web, in which a browser requests a complete web page at a time.
++++++
Comet is a web application model in which a long-held HTTP request allows a web server to push data to a browser, without the browser explicitly requesting it.
The use of Comet techniques predates the name Comet, and is also known by several other names,
 including Ajax Push, Reverse Ajax, Two-way-web, HTTP Streaming, and HTTP server push

Push technology, or server push, describes a style of Internet-based communication where the request
 for a given transaction is initiated by the publisher or central server.
It is contrasted with pull technology, where the request for the transmission of information is
 initiated by the receiver or client.

duck typing
the type of an object is defined by what it can do
This method of not caring about the actual type of a variable, just relying on what methods
 it supports is known as Duck Typing.

edge case
a problem or situation that occurs only at an extreme (maximum or minimum) operating parameter.

boundary case is frequently used in software engineering  to refer to the behavior of a system when
 one of its inputs is at or just beyond its maximum or minimum limits. It is frequently used when
discussing software testing.
For example, if an input field is meant to accept only integer values 0 - 100, entering the
 values -1, 0, 100, and 101 would represent the boundary cases.
=====
It is commonly thought that three cases should be used when boundary testing (one on the boundary,
 and one on either side to it). However, the case on the valid side of the boundary is redundant,
 and so equivalence partitioning recommends skipping it.

corner case (or pathological case) is a problem or situation that occurs only outside of normal
 operating parameters   specifically one that manifests itself when multiple environmental
variables or conditions are simultaneously at extreme levels, even though each parameter is
within the specified range for that parameter.
+++
Contrast a corner case with an edge case, an issue that occurs only at a (single) maximum or
 minimum parameter. For example, a speaker that distorts audio at maximum volume, even in
the absence of other extreme settings or conditions.
===
edge case: extreme situations that challenge the system

Behavior driven development (or BDD) is an agile software development technique that encourages
 collaboration between developers, QA and non-technical or business participants in a software project.
++
BDD focuses on obtaining a clear understanding of desired software behaviour through discussion
 with stakeholders. It extends TDD by writing test cases in a natural language that non-programmers can read.

six thinking hats
The de Bono Hats system (also known as "Six Hats" or "Six Thinking Hats") is a thinking tool for
 group discussion and individual thinking.
+++++++++
Six distinct states are identified and assigned a color:

    * Questions (White) - considering purely what information is available, what are the facts?
    * Emotions (Red) - instinctive gut reaction or statements of emotional feeling (but not any justification)
    * Bad points judgment (Black) - logic applied to identifying flaws or barriers, seeking mismatch
    * Good points judgment (Yellow) - logic applied to identifying benefits, seeking harmony
    * Creativity (Green) - statements of provocation and investigation, seeing where a thought goes
    * Thinking (Blue) - thinking about thinking

The Maxim of Quantity: do not leave out details

The Maxim of Relevance: mention relevant info only

QBE (query by example): (in hibernate)
partially populate an instance of an object
let hibernate build a criterion using the instance as an example behind the scene

N+1 select problem
let's say you have a collection of persons and you want to get the address of each person.
first, you get all the persons: select name from person_table;
then for each person, you get an address: select address from address_table where person_name = ?
hence N+1
solution: use joins
select person_table.name, address_table.address
    from person_table left join address_table on (person_table.name = address_table.person_name);

You're falling asleep, then suddenly snap awake. There's a term for that: hypnagogic startle or hypnic jerk.

Fermi problem, Fermi estimate
is an estimation problem designed to teach dimensional analysis, approximation, and the importance of clearly identifying one's assumptions
such problems typically involve making justified guesses about quantities that seem impossible to compute given limited available information.
e.g "How many piano tuners are there in Chicago?

Fermi paradox is the apparent contradiction between high estimates of the probability of the
 existence of extraterrestrial civilizations and the lack of evidence for, or contact with, such civilizations.

wire protocol
refers to a way of getting data from point to point: A wire protocol is needed if more than one application
has to interoperate.
the mechanism for transmitting data from point a to point b
===
In a network, it is the mechanism for transmitting data from point a to point b. It often refers
to a distributed object protocol such as SOAP, CORBA or RMI, which is software only and which
 invokes the running of programs on remote servers.
===
The term is a bit confusing, because it sounds like the physical layer (layer 1) of the network
 that places the bits "onto the wire." In some cases, it may refer to this layer; however, it
generally refers to protocols higher than the physical layer or even the next higher data link
layer (layer 2) such as Ethernet and ATM.

examples of wire protocols are
    * IIOP for CORBA
    * JRMP for RMI
    * SOAP for Web Services
      AMQP for Message Oriented Middleware

DOM:
The XML DOM defines a standard way for accessing and manipulating XML documents.
The DOM presents an XML document as a tree-structure.

XPath:
seven kinds of nodes: element, attribute, text, namespace, processing-instruction, comment, and document nodes.

rostrum: a platform for public speaking

Web API
a defined set of HTTP request messages along with a definition of the structure of response messages, typically expressed in JSON or XML.
Web APIs allow the combination of multiple services into new applications known as mashups

Web Services allow programs written in different languages on different platforms to communicate
 with each other in a standards-based way

Long on style, short on substance

want for nothing: not to lack anything; to have everything one needs or desires
The Smiths don't have much money, but their children seem to want for nothing.

consolidation/groupage:
Combining several smaller shipments into a full container load or a large shipment to avail of better freight rates.

In shipping, breakbulk cargo or general cargo is a term that covers a great variety of goods
 that must be loaded individually, and not in intermodal containers nor in bulk as with oil or grain.

Bulk cargo is commodity cargo that is transported unpackaged in large quantities. This cargo
is usually dropped or poured, with a spout or shovel bucket, as a liquid or as a mass of
 relatively small solids (e.g. grain, coal), into a bulk carrier ship's hold, railroad car,
or tanker truck/trailer/semi-trailer body. Smaller quantities (still considered "bulk") can
 be boxed (or drummed) and palletised. Bulk cargo is classified as liquid or dry.

POSIX
"Portable Operating System Interface for uni-X",
a set of standards for operating systems
Ideally, a developer should have to write a program only once to run on all POSIX-compliant systems.
The POSIX specifications describe an operating system that is similar to, but not necessarily the same as, Unix.

JPA: embeddable
a relationship where the target object's data is embedded in the source object's table is
considered an embedded relationship, and the target object is considered an Embeddable object.
An embeddable object cannot be directly persisted, or queried, it can only be persisted or queried in the context of its parent. An embeddable object does not have an id or table.

JPA Orphan removal will ensure that any object no longer referenced from the sourceis deleted
 from the database.

JPA cascading : allows the relationship to be cascaded
If persist() is called on the parent, and the child is also new, it will also be persisted.
used in one-to-one and one-to-many relationships
cascade options: persist, remove, merge, refresh, all
e.g. relationship: Order -> OrderLine.
Cascading the orderLines relationship allows for the Order's -> OrderLines to be persisted,
 removed, merged along with their parent.

lyceum:
hall for public lecture

load factor: used capacity divided by total capacity

bean-managed transaction
the code in the session or message-driven bean explicitly marks the boundaries of the transaction.
 An entity bean cannot have bean-managed transactions; it must use container-managed transactions
instead. Although beans with container-managed transactions require less coding, they have one
limitation: When a method is executing, it can be associated with either a single transaction
 or no transaction at all. If this limitation will make coding your bean difficult, you should
 consider using bean-managed transactions.

Container-Managed Transactions
the EJB container sets the boundaries of the transactions.

The bee's knees:
the highest quality. Excellent

JMX : Java Management Extensions
MBean: a java object representing a resource to be managed.
its interface consists of:
	attributes that can be read and written
	operations that can be invoked
	notifications that can be emitted by the MBean

EclipseLink:
session: the facade through which an application accesses EclipseLink functionality
An EclipseLink session provides the primary access to the EclipseLink runtime. It is the means
 by which your application performs all persistence operations with the data source that contains
 persistent objects.

EAV
Conceptually an EAV design involves a single table with three columns, an entity (such as an
olfactory receptor ID), an attribute (such as species, which is actually a pointer into the
 metadata table) and a value for the attribute (e.g., rat). In EAV design, one row stores
 a single fact. In a conventional table that has one column per attribute, by contrast,
 one row stores a set of facts. EAV design is appropriate when the number of parameters
 that potentially apply to an entity is vastly more than those that actually apply to an individual entity.
+++
appropriate when the number of possible attributes is much greater than the number
that will actually apply to a given entity

The Simplest Thing that Could Possibly Work

scientific notation: ("a times ten to the power of b"),
a is called the mantissa/significand/coefficient
normalized notation: 1<=|a|<10

an order of magnitude difference: 10 times as large
two orders of magnitude difference: 100 times as large

floating point number: significand X radix^exponent

break the mold
to do something differently, after it has been done in the same way for a long time

in the grand/great scheme of things
if you say that in the grand scheme of things something is not important, you mean that
it is not important when compared to much more serious things

in the scheme of things
in a general view of the situation

weaving
means manipulating the byte-code of compiled Java classes.

reverse index:
reverse the key value before entering into the index. reduce contention for index block.
not effective for range search. very useful when the key is a sequence number that increases by
a fixed value.

on the count of three

five bucks says you can't do it

"how to handle questions"
the short answer is that ...
the long answer is that ..
that's another way of doing it.
you could do that
give me the pros and cons
compare and contrast the two options
what do you suggest?
thank you for your time
can you repeat that?
why don't you give it a try?
is this what you meant?

writ large: expressed in a bigger way, stronger form of that thing.
e.g. Hollywood is American society writ large.
She believed that cultures are just personalities writ large.
 The genius of the story is that it's about ordinary life writ large.

out-of-band:
In software, describes values of a function which are not in its natural
 range of return values, but are rather signals that some kind of exception has occurred.
 Many C functions, for example, return a nonnegative integral value, but indicate failure
 with an out-of-band return value of -1.
--
refers to communications which occur outside of a previously established communication method or channel.
==
Out-of-band communication is the exchange of call control information in a separate band
from the data or voice stream, or on an entirely separate, dedicated channel

turing machine: An abstract device that can simulate the logic of any conceivable computer algorithm
A programming language that is capable of modeling any possible computation algorithm is said to
be "Turing complete." it could be used to solve any computation problem.

Prototype-based programming is a style of object-oriented programming in which classes
 are not present, and behavior reuse (known as inheritance in class-based languages) is
performed via a process of cloning existing objects that serve as prototypes. This model
 can also be known as classless, prototype-oriented or instance-based programming.
 Delegation is the language feature that supports prototype-based programming.

JSONP: JSON with padding
a pattern of usage allowing a page to request data from a server in a different domain
--
same origin policy:
 a web page served from server1.example.com cannot normally connect to or communicate
 with a server other than server1.example.com.
---
An exception is the HTML <script> element. Exploiting the open policy for <script> elements,
 some pages use them to retrieve JavaScript code that operates on dynamically generated
JSON-formatted data from other origins. This usage pattern is known as JSONP. Requests
 for JSONP retrieve not JSON, but arbitrary JavaScript code. They are evaluated by
 the JavaScript interpreter, not parsed by a JSON parser.
-->
a usage pattern that allows a page to request data from a server in a different domain.
-->
example return value: functionCall({"Name": "Foo", "Id" : 1234, "Rank": 7});
==
<script type="text/javascript"
         src="http://server2.example.com/RetrieveUser?UserId=1234&jsonp=parseResponse">
 </script>
== return payload:
parseResponse({"Name": "Foo", "Id" : 1234, "Rank": 7})

In computer graphics, a sprite  is a two-dimensional image or animation that is integrated
into a larger scene.
===
CSS sprite:
To reduce the number of requests the browser makes to the server, some web designers combine
 numerous small images or icons into a larger image called a sprite sheet.
 CSS is used to display the parts of the composite image to display at different points
in the page. If a page has 10 1 kB images, they can be combined into one 10 kB image,
 downloaded with a single HTTP request, and then positioned with CSS. Reducing the number
 of HTTP requests can make a Web page load much faster.

HTML div tag
The <div> tag defines a division or a section in an HTML document.
===
HTML span tag
The <span> tag is used to group inline-elements in a document.
The <span> tag provides no visual change by itself.

maginot line:
 a defensive barrier or strategy that inspires a false sense of security

idempotent receiver
one that can safely receive the same message multiple times
-->
define the message semantics to support idempotency
don't overload a single field with dual semantics

remittance man: a man living aborad on money sent from home

concurrency: the execution of disparate tasks at roughtly the same time, each sharing a common
resource.
The result of concurrent tasks often affect the behavior of other concurrent tasks.
+++
Parallelism: refers to partitiioning a task into multiple parts, each run at the same time.
typically, parallel tasks work toward an aggregate goal. The result of one does not affect
the behavior of any other task.
===
concurrency: conceptually simultaneous
parallelism: physically simultaneous

He doesn't have much in the way of education
Do not expect much in the way of blogging
Jaime doesn't have much in the way of company

I am not so much disappointed as I am surprised.

It is not so much an alternative as ...

so much as: but rather

elan: distinctive style (flair), liveliness (verve)
flair: Dazzling style
verve: vitality, energy or enthusiasm in the express of ideas
panache: dash, verve, flair, Dazzling style
pizzazz: flair, vigorous spirit, zest
zest: flavor, gusto, enjoyment
brio: vivacity
vim: energy

myopia: a vision problem where light rays entering the eye are brought to a focus
in front of the retina. The end result being the inability to see distant objects.
is a condition in which visual images come to a focus in front of the retina of the eye,
resulting in the inability to see distant objects clearly

hyperopia: a vision problem where light rays entering the eye are brought to a focus
behind the retina. The end result being distant objects are seen more clearly than near objects.

astigmatism: a vision problem where light rays entering the eye are focused on two points
because the cornea is irregularly (not spherically) shaped. The end result is blurry images.
A vision problem where the eye does not focus light evenly.

presbyopia: the inability of the eye to focus on near objects as a person ages.

I was impressed not so much by ...., as much as I was astounded by ...
It is not about change ... so much as it is about ...

solar calendar: a calendar whose dates indicate the position of the earth in its orbit
around the sun. If the dates indicate season, it is called tropical solar calendar
(Gregorian calendar).
If the position of the earth is reckoned with respect to the fixed stars, it is
called sidereal solar calendar (Hindu Solar calendar).

ecliptic: the apparent path of the sun as seen from the earth.
If the sun's path is observed from the Earth's reference frame, it appears
 to move around the Earth in a path which is tilted with respect to the spin
 axis at 23.5. This path is called the ecliptic.
---> the sun's path in the sky

ecliptic plane: the plane that contains the orbit of the earth.

celestial sphere: an imaginary sphere of infinite radius concentric with
the earth. on which
all celestial bodies except the Earth are imagined to be projected.
+++
The stars can be imagined to be points of light on a sphere which rotates about the Earth.
 Projecting the Earth's poles and equator out onto this imaginary sphere provides a
 framework for celestial measurement.

The length of a day, which is measured by the time it takes Earth to rotate once on its axis.

mean solar day: the average period of rotation of the earth about its axis
with respect to the sun. defined to be 24 hours.

sidereal day: the period of rotation of the earth about its axis with
respect to the stars.

The celestial equator is a great circle on the imaginary celestial sphere,
 which is actually the plane of the terrestrial equator extended out into
the universe (i.e., it could be constructed by extrapolating the Earth's
equator until it touches the celestial sphere).
the projection of the geographical equator upon the celestial sphere.

great circle: a circle on the surface of a sphere that has
the same circumference as the sphere. a circle on the surface
of a sphere such that the plane containing the circle passes
through the center of the sphere.

the equivalent of latitude: declination
the equivalent of longitude: right ascension (measured in hours, minutes, seconds).
one hour = 15 degrees

Using the celestial sphere as a reference is called sidereal time.
Solar (tropical) time: use the sun as a reference.

tropical year: the length of time that the sun, as viewed from the earth, takes to return
to the same position along the ecliptic. The precise length of time depends on which
point of the ecliptic one chooses.
The time from one fixed point, such as a solstice or equinox,
to the next is called a tropical year (this is a generalization)

The time from one new moon to the next is called a synodic month.

19 years is called a Metonic cycle. 19 tropical years is about 235 synodic months.
Every 19 years, the phases of the moon fall on the same dates.

lunisolar calendar: a calendar whose dates indicate both the moon phase and the time of
the solar year. If the solar year is defined as a tropical year then a lunisolar
calendar will give an indication of the season.
the year coincides with the tropical year and the month coincides with the synodic month.

Chinese calendar: based on a combination of lunar and solar movements.
The lunar cycle is roughly 29.5 days.
Every few years, the lunar calendar is synchronized with the solar year
by adding an extra month.

intercalation: solar year does not have whole number of days. a calendar year must
have a whole number of days. To reconcile the two, one must vary the number of days
in a year. In gregorian calendar, the intercalary day is Feb 29. The solar year does
not have a whole number of months either, so lunisolar calendar must have a variable
number of months in a year.

A constellation is any one of the 88 areas into which the sky  or the celestial sphere  is divided.

The term zodiac denotes an annual cycle of twelve stations along the ecliptic,
the apparent path of the sun across the heavens through the constellations
that divide the ecliptic into twelve equal zones of celestial longitude.
The zodiac is the first known celestial coordinate system.
Zodiac: represents 12 constellations.

Common Era is the system of numbering years from the supposed beginning of the life of Jesus.

In chronology, an epoch is an instant chosen as the origin of a particular time scale.

morals: a core set of values that help us define what is right and what is wrong.
ethics: how we behave with regard to our moral values.
	When one acts in ways that are consistent with our moral values
	 we will characterize that as acting ethically

unsaturated fat: has double bonds.
saturated fat: no double bonds. saturated with hydrogen.
trans fat: vegetable oil treated with hydrogen. partially hydrogenated unsaturated fat.
	increase shelf life and flavor stability of foods containing trans fat.
	raises LDL and lowers HDL.
valence shell: the outermost electron shells.
free radical: has an unpaired electron in the valence shell. highly reactive.
oxidize: to lose an electron
oxidant (oxidizing agent): tends to oxidize other substances (i.e., steal electrons from other substances)
	A substance that gains electrons in a redox chemical reaction.
reduce: to gain an electron

oxidation is better defined as an increase in oxidation number, and reduction as a decrease in oxidation number.

Substances that have the ability to oxidize other substances are said to be oxidative
and are known as oxidizing agents, oxidants or oxidizers. Put another way, the oxidant
 removes electrons from another substance, and is thus reduced itself. And because
it "accepts" electrons it is also called an electron acceptor.

Substances that have the ability to reduce other substances are said to be reductive
and are known as reducing agents, reductants, or reducers. Put in another way, the
reductant transfers electrons to another substance, and is thus oxidized itself.
And because it "donates" electrons it is also called an electron donor.

antioxidant: reduce oxidative damage to cells. donate electrons to free radicals.
An antioxidant is a molecule capable of slowing or preventing the oxidation of other molecules.
Oxidation is a chemical reaction that transfers electrons from a substance to an oxidizing agent.
Oxidation reactions can produce free radicals, which start chain reactions that damage cells.
Antioxidants terminate these chain reactions by removing free radical intermediates, and
inhibit other oxidation reactions by being oxidized themselves. As a result, antioxidants
are often reducing agents such as thiols or polyphenols.

plant cells have walls. cell wall is composed of cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin.
Lignin fills the spaces in the cell wall between cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin components.
Lignin makes wood stiff and trees stand upright
Paper is made from wood, which is made up mainly of white cellulose. Wood also has a lot
of a dark substance in it called lignin, which ends up in the paper, too, along with the
cellulose. The exposure of lignin to air and sunlight is what turns paper yellow.

normal paper is made from wood (the cellulose found in trees)
paper money is made from cotton and linen fibers (known as rag paper)
counterfeit detector pen: It contains an iodine solution that reacts with the starch in
wood-based paper to create a black stain. When the solution is applied to the fiber-based paper
used in real bills, no discoloration occurs.

patent: A grant made by a government that confers upon the
creator of an invention the sole right to make, use,
and sell that invention for a set period of time

copyright: the right granted to an author, composer, for exclusive
publication, sale, or distribution of a literary work.

alpha testing: in-house testing of a s/w product.

baud: symbol rate: symbols per second. not the same as data rate:
each symbol may carry more than 1 bit of information.
If baud is 600 and each symbol carries 4 bits of information, the data
rate is 2400 bits/s.
channel capacity: the amount of information that can be reliably transmitted over a channel.

parallax: An apparent change in the direction of an object, caused by a change
in observational position that provides a new line of sight.

Precession refers to a change in the direction of the axis of a rotating object.

A gyroscope is a device for measuring or maintaining orientation,
based on the principle of conservation of angular momentum. The
essence of the device is a spinning wheel on an axle. The device,
once spinning, tends to resist changes to its orientation due to
the angular momentum of the wheel. In physics this phenomenon is
also known as gyroscopic inertia or rigidity in space.

ice age causes:
	1. orbit eccentricity of the earth. changes from near circular to elliptical.
		period: about 100,000 years
	2. axial tilt: the angle changes (every 41,000 years)
	3. axial orientation (precession of the equinoxes): every 22,000 years.

glacier: a river of ice that moves in response to gravity.
ice sheet: a large sheet of non-moving ice.

UML: a language for visualizing, specifying, constructing,
and documenting the artifacts of a software system.

a class is used to model an abstraction drawn from the vocabulary
of the problem space or the solution space.

interface: a collection of operations that specify the service
of a class or component.

instance: a concrete manifestation of an abstraction to which a set of
operations may be applied and which may have a state that stores
the effects of the operation.

stereotype: an extension of the vocabulary of the UML.

polymorphism:
In object-oriented programming, the ability of different objects to respond, each in its own way,
to the same message.
types of polymorphism:
(1) overloading, aka ad-hoc polymorphism
(2) type coercion
(3) parametric polymorphism: java generics, C++ templates, a method that can accept any type.
     used a lot in functional programming.
(4) subtype/inclusion polymorphism

An objects class defines how the object is implemented.
In contrast, an objects type only refers to its interface.
Class inheritance defines an objects implementation in terms of another objects implementation.
Type inheritance describes when an object can be used in place of another
Inheritance: a language feature that allows you to derive a new class from an existing class.
inheritance: object types are organized in a class hierarchy.

encapsulation:
The localization of knowledge within a module. Because objects encapsulate data and
implementation, the user of an object can view the object as a black box that provides services.
Programming technique that hides the implementation of an operation from its users behind
an abstract interface. This allows the implementation to be updated or changed without
 impacting the users of the interface.
--- data and behavior are package together.

default:
A particular setting or value for a variable that is assigned automatically
 by an operating system and remains in effect unless canceled or overridden by the operator.
A situation or condition that obtains in the absence of active intervention

Modeling is a central part of all the activities that
lead up to the deployment of good software. We
build models to communicate the desired structure and
behavior of our system. We build models to visualize
and control the system's architecture. We build models
to better understand the system we are building, often
exposing opportunities for simplification and reuse.
And we build models to manage risk.

a model is a simplification of reality.
--
modeling is the representation of reality in an abstract way.

principles of modeling:
1. The choice of what models to create has a profound influence
 on how a problem is attacked and how a solution is shaped.
2. Every model may be expressed at different levels of precision.
3. The best models are connected to reality.
4. No single model or view is sufficient. Every nontrivial
system is best approached through a small set of nearly
independent models with multiple viewpoints.

aims:
1. Models help us to visualize a system as it is or as we want it to be.
2. Models permit us to specify the structure or behavior of a system.
3. Models give us a template that guides us in constructing a system.
4. Models document the decisions we have made.

We build models of complex systems because we cannot comprehend such a system in its entirety.

To understand the architecture of such a system, you need
several complementary and interlocking views: a use case
 view (exposing the requirements of the system), a design
 view (capturing the vocabulary of the problem space and
the solution space), an interaction view (showing the
 interactions among the parts of the system and between
 the system and the environment), an implementation view
 (addressing the physical realization of the system), and
 a deployment view (focusing on system engineering issues).
 Each of these views may have structural, as well as
 behavioral, aspects. Together, these views represent
the blueprints of software.

model: an interpretation of reality that abstracts the aspects relevant
to solving the problem at hand and ignores extraneous details.

Systems design is the process or art of defining the hardware
 and software architecture, components, modules, interfaces,
and data for a computer system to satisfy specified requirements.

Abstraction is the process of reducing the information
content of a concept, or of an observation of an empirical
 phenomenon, typically in order to retain only information
which is relevant for a particular purpose. For example,
abstracting a leather soccer ball to a ball retains only
the information on general ball attributes and behaviour.
 Similarly, abstracting happiness to an emotional state
reduces the amount of information conveyed about the emotional state.
---
is the elimination of the irrelevant and the amplification of the essential.
---
An abstraction layer is a way of hiding the implementation details of a particular set of functionality.

----
omitting certain kinds of detail in order to emphasise others
"The ability to simplify means to eliminate the unnecessary so that the necessary may speak"

aggregation: composite aggregation vs shared aggregation
composition: the part cannot exist on its own

Systems analysis is the science dealing with analysis of
complex, large scale systems and the interactions within those systems.

A business analyst (BA) is responsible for analyzing the business
 needs of their clients and stakeholders to help identify business
problems and propose solutions. Within the systems
 development life cycle domain, the BA typically performs
a liaison function between the business side of an enterprise
and the information technology department or external service providers.

Requirements analysis encompasses all of the tasks that
go into the instigation, scoping and definition of a new or altered system.
Identify the needs or requirements of a client.

Popular architectural styles are often a product of the weaknesses of their predecessors.

OEM: are manufacturers who resell another company's product under
their own name and branding.
While an OEM is similar to a VAR (value-added reseller),
it refers specifically to the act of a company rebranding
 a product to its own name and offering its own warranty,
support and licensing of the product. The term is really
a misnomer because OEMs are not the original manufacturers;
they are the customizers.
OEM was an adjective used to describe a company that produced
 hardware to be marketed under another company's brand

VAR: typically load applications or proprietary software
onto computers and may also incorporate third-party options
to design a complete solution for a client. This "value-added"
system is often customized for a specific application, but
is sold to the VAR's customer base under the original design
 manufacturer brand; with that manufacturer's warranty,
 support, and license agreements.

holding company: Company formed for the purpose of owning or controlling other companies.

c/o: care of: Through someone, by way of someone, as in I sent the gift
 in care of your parents. This phrase indicates that something is
to be delivered to someone at someone else's address.

organic growth: A company is said to be growing organically when it is
increasing the turnover of its existing business.
Contrast this with a company that is growing by acquiring other companies.
The growth rate that a company can achieve by increasing output
and enhancing sales. This excludes any profits or growth
acquired from takeovers, acquisitions or mergers. Takeovers,
 acquisitions and mergers do not bring about profits generated
 within the company, and therefore, are not considered organic.
Organic growth represents the true growth for the core of the company.
 It is a good indicator of how well management has used its internal
 resources to expand profits. Organic growth also identifies whether
managers have used their skills to improve the business.

boilerplate: standard formulations uniformly found in certain types
of legal documents or news stories.

raised pavement marker: Stimsonite marker, botts' dot.

cement is an ingredient of concrete.
concrete contains cement, plus sand and gravel.
when mixed with water, the cement hardens and binds
the gravel into a rocklike mass. does not stretch well.
changes in volume as it dries out.

an XML namespace is a collection of element type and attribute names.

URI: a string of characters which identiies a resource. it can come in one of two flavors: URL or URN:
URL: a unique address for a file on the internet. URL is a type of URI.
URN: urn:<namespace identifier (NID)>:<namespace specific string (NSS)>
An URI locator is known as URL.

serialization: The process of converting the data in an object to XML (or byte stream)
is called serialization. The reverse of serialization, loading XML into the object,
is called deserialization.

Curb weight is the total weight of an automobile with standard equipment,
motor oil, coolant, a full tank of fuel and not loaded with either passengers or cargo.

A gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) is the maximum allowable total weight
of a road vehicle that is loaded to capacity, including the weight of the
vehicle itself plus fuel, passengers, cargo,

Dry weight: the weight of an automobile or motorcycle with standard equipment,
no motor oil, coolant or fuel and not loaded with either passengers or cargo.

far be it from me to do something:
it is not my responsibility to do this...
something that you say when you are giving advice or criticizing someone
and you want to seem polite.
e.g., Far be it from me to tell you what to do, but don't you think you should apologize?

Impedance matching is the practice of attempting to make the output impedance
of a source equal to the input impedance of the load to which it is ultimately
connected, usually in order to maximise the power transfer and minimise reflections from the load.

Impedance mismatch is a term in systems analysis which describes
an inadequate or excessive ability of one system to accommodate
input from another.

Object-relational impedance mismatch: refers to the difficulty in
mapping tables in the relational database to an object model.

severability: If any part of this agreement is legally declared invalid
or unenforceable, all other parts of this agreement are still valid and enforceable.

law of demeter: principle of least knowledge. a design guideline for software
development, particularly OO. "Talk to your immediate friends". a given object
should assume as little as possible about the structure and properties of other
objects.

QoS:
a networking term that specifies a guaranteed throughput level.
---
In the fields of packet-switched networks and computer networking,
the traffic engineering term Quality of Service (QoS) refers to control
 mechanisms that can provide different priority to different users or
 data flows, or guarantee a certain level of performance to a data
 flow in accordance with requests from the application program.
The term Quality of Service is sometimes used as a quality
measure with many alternative definitions.
The goal of QoS is to provide guarantees on the ability of a network to deliver predictable results.
Elements of network performance within the scope of QoS often
include availability (uptime), bandwidth (throughput), latency (delay), and error rate.
QoS involves prioritization of network traffic.
QoS: provides guaranteed timely delivery of specific application data or resources
 to a particular destination or destinations.

Bandwidth in computer networking refers to the data rate supported by a network connection or interface.
Bandwidth represents the capacity of the connection
the capacity of a communications channel.

throughput: Output or production, as of a computer program, over a period of time.
In communication networks, such as Ethernet or packet radio, throughput is the average rate of
successful message delivery over a communication channel. usually in bits per second

SOAP performance:
    * Extracting the SOAP envelope from the SOAP packet is time-expensive.
    * Parsing the contained XML information in the SOAP envelope using a XML parser is also time-expensive.
    * There is not much optimization possible with XML data.
    * SOAP encoding rules make it mandatory to include typing information in all
	the SOAP messages sent and received.
    * Encoding binary data in a form acceptable to XML results in overhead of
	additional bytes added as a result of the encoding as well as processor
	 overhead performing the encoding/decoding.

nanotechnology:
A branch of science and engineering devoted to the design and production
of extremely small electronic devices and circuits built from individual atoms and molecules.

remainder mark:
A mark (rubber stamp, felt marker stroke, or spray, often on a book's bottom edge)
 signifying that the book was returned to publisher as unsold, and then sold at a much lower price

spectrum: a graph of the intensity of light given off at different wavelengths.

risk factor: something that increases the chance of getting a disease.

get the time: dial 767 followed by any four numbers, e.g. 767-0000

are thrown for an even bigger loop.
she was thrown for a loop.

ergonomics: the science of office equipment design that enables a person
to work with less pain and tiredness.

Donald Knuth: premature optimization is the root of all evil in programming

buffer: a storage place where data are kept before it is needed by a program that reads or writes that data.

an order of magnitude: about ten times difference.
two orders of magnitude: about 100 times difference
basically, a power of ten

prolepsis: The anticipation and answering of an objection or argument before one's opponent has put it forward.

gregorian calendar: Years in the calendar are numbered from the traditional birth year of Jesus.
named after Pope Gregory XIII. Decreed in 1582. By that time, spring equinox was on Mar 10. Skipped
ten days in 1582. Adopted by UK in 1752 (skipped 11 days). motivated by the calculation of the date
of Easter (the first sunday after the first full moon on or after the spring equinox). repeat
every 400 years. 97 leap years in 400 years. Julian calendar has 100 leap years in 400 years.
Leap years are all years divisible by 4, with the exception of those divisible by 100, but not by 400.

Anno Domini: latin: in the year of our lord.

The Common Era, also known as the Current Era, is the period of measured time beginning with the year 1 on the Gregorian calendar.

equinox: the equinox happens when the Sun is at one of two opposite points on
the celestial sphere where the celestial equator and ecliptic intersect.
In a wider sense, the equinoxes are the two days each year when the center
 of the Sun spends an equal amount of time above and below the horizon at every location on Earth.
The sun is directly above the equator at equinox.
Visualization: there is a location on the surface of the earth where the sun
reaches an altitude of 90 degree. This location moves from north to south
and then back. At equinox, this location is on the equator. At solstice, this
location reaches its most northerly/southerly latitude.
On the day of an equinox, the geometric center of the Sun's disk crosses the equator.
+++
the moment in time when there is a location on the equator where the sun is directly overhead.

Twilight is the time before sunrise or after sunset when sunlight scattered in the upper
atmosphere illuminates the lower atmosphere and the surface of the Earth.
Civil twilight begins in the morning when the center of the Sun is less than 6
below the horizon, and ends at sunrise. Evening civil twilight begins at sunset
and ends when the center of the Sun is more than 6 below the horizon.
+++
dawn: the beginning of morning twilight.
sunrise: is the instant at which the upper edge of the Sun appears above the horizon in the east.
dusk: the end of evening twilight.
sunset: the moment the trailing edge of the sun's disk disappears below the horizon in the west.
twilight: the time between dawn and sunrise, and the time between sunset and dusk.
+++
astronomical dawn: formally defined as the time at which the sun is 18 degrees below the horizon in the morning
nautical dawn: formally defined as the time at which the sun is 12 degrees below the horizon in the morning
civil dawn: formally defined as the time at which the sun is 6 degrees below the horizon in the morning

tropic of cancer: It is the farthest northern latitude at which the sun can
appear directly overhead at noon, an event which occurs on the June solstice.
It is difficult to specify an exact location for both tropic circles because
the obliquity of the ecliptic varies between 22.5 and 24.5 with a 41,000 year periodicity.

The northern solstice is in June on Earth, when the sun is directly over the Tropic of Cancer in the Northern Hemisphere,

it depends on what your definition of <something> is

the chemical properties of elements are periodic functions of their atomic numbers.
atomic number: number of protons.
atomic mass: number of protons plus neutrons.

scientific method: observation, hypothesis, prediction, experiment

the substitution of symbols (e.g., the word electron) for physical
reality is referred to as abstraction.

inductive reasoning: the creation of a general statement about a set
of specific facts. going from certain truths to an uncertain generality.

deductive reasoning: going from general truths to specific truths.

"Never increase, beyond what is necessary, the number of entities required to explain anything"
--- William of Ockham (1285-1349)
Occam's razor:
In other words, when multiple competing theories are equal in other respects, the
 principle recommends selecting the theory that introduces the fewest assumptions
and postulates the fewest hypothetical entities.
"when you have two competing theories which make exactly the same predictions, the one that is simpler is the better."

Aesthetics (also spelled esthetics) is a branch of philosophy called value theory or
axiology, which is the study of sensory or sensori-emotional values,
 sometimes called judgments of sentiment and taste.

Camp is an aesthetic in which something has appeal because of its bad taste or ironic value.
Something that is amusing by virtue of its being

public key cryptography:
sender uses recipient's public key to encrypt the message.
recipient uses recipient's private key to decrypt the message.

digital signature: sender encrypts the message using his private key.
Digital signature schemes normally give two algorithms, one for signing which involves the user's
secret or private key, and one for verifying signatures which involves the user's public key.
 The output of the signature process is called the "digital signature."
signing: sender encrypt using sender's private key.
verifying: recipient uses sender's public key.
digital signature: lets the recipient of information verify the information's
origin, and also verify that the information was not tampered with.

"Problems cannot be solved at the same level of awareness that created them" - einstein

C'est la vie: it is the life (literal). -> such is life

Alice in Wonderlands:
sentence first, verdict afterwards (the queen)

In mathematics, a transcendental number is a real or complex number which is not algebraic,
that is, not a solution of a non-zero polynomial equation, with rational coefficients.

real number: include rational (can be expressed as a fraction) and irrational
(cannot be expressed as a fraction) numbers.

complex number: include the imaginary number (square root of -1)

As is so often the case ...

Never Let It Be Said that ...

The phrase "Pot calling the kettle black" is an idiom, used to accuse another
speaker of hypocrisy, in that the speaker disparages the subject in a way that
 could equally be applied to him or her. In former times cast iron pots and
 kettles were quickly blackened from the soot of the fire. If personified
into animate objects, the pot would then be hypocritical to insult the
 kettle's colour. The phrase "It takes one to know one" has a similar meaning.

Hypocrisy is the act of condemning another person, when the critic is guilty of the same
thing that is being condemned.

political action committee, is the name commonly given to a private group organized to elect or
defeat government officials in order to promote legislation, often supporting the group's special interests.
A group organized to raise money for their favorite political candidates.

Being carbon neutral, or carbon neutrality, refers to the practice of balancing carbon dioxide
released into the atmosphere from burning fossil fuels, wood, or other sources; with practices
that remove or sequestor carbon from the atmosphere, and use of renewable energy that creates
a similar amount of useful energy without releasing carbon, so that the net carbon emissions are zero.
(carbon offset)

Carbon offsetting is the act of reducing ("offsetting") greenhouse gas emissions.
A well-known example is the planting of trees to compensate for the
greenhouse gas emissions from personal air travel. The idea of paying
 for emission-reductions elsewhere instead of reducing by own actions
is also known from the closely related concept of emissions trading.

carbon footprint: a measure of the impact human activities have on the environment, in terms
of the amount of carbon dioxide produced. A measure of the amount of CO2 emitted
through the combustion of fossil fuels; in the case of an individual, as part of
their daily lives.

vendor-agnostic

sticking it out

The earth's rotation is slowing due to tidal deceleration (gravitational pull from the moon).
The rotation increases due to melting glaciers (water flows from high elevation to low
elevation). The net result is still a decrease in rotational speed.

Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) is a high-precision atomic time standard.
Leap seconds are added to or subtracted from UTC to keep it within 0.9 seconds of UT1.

Universal Time (UT) is a timescale based on the rotation of the Earth. It is
a modern continuation of the Greenwich Mean Time (GMT), i.e., the mean solar time
 on the meridian of Greenwich, England, which is the conventional 0-meridian for
 geographic longitude. GMT is sometimes used, incorrectly, as a synonym for UTC.
The old GMT has been split, in effect, into UTC and UT1.

Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) is a term originally referring to mean solar time
at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich in England. It is now often used to refer
to Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) when this is viewed as a time zone,
although strictly UTC is an atomic time scale which only approximates GMT
in the old sense. It is also used to refer to Universal Time (UT), which is the
astronomical concept that directly replaced the original GMT.

Solar time is based on the idea that when the sun reaches its highest point in the sky, it is noon.
The time measured by Earth's rotation relative to the Sun.
a reckoning of the passage of time based on the sun's position in the sky.

Apparent solar time is based on the apparent solar day, which is the interval between two
successive returns of the Sun to the local meridian. Solar time can be measured by a sundial.
Apparent solar time (or true or real solar time) is the time indicated by the Sun on a sundial,
while mean solar time is the average as indicated by clocks.
The average time taken for the sun to return to its highest point is 24 hours.
apparent solar day: the time interval between successive passages of the sun over a local
meridian: not constant because of earth's axial tilt and elliptical shape of earth's orbit.

Mean solar time is artificial clock time adjusted via observations of the diurnal rotation
of the fixed stars to agree with average apparent solar time. The length of a mean solar
 day is a constant 24 hours throughout the year. A time based on a hypothetical sun
moving uniformly along the celestial equator.
Mean solar time, kept by most clocks and watches, is the solar time that
would be measured by observation if the Sun traveled at a uniform apparent speed throughout the year.
To  remedy  the  situation  created  by  apparent  solar  time,  mean  solar  time was
 introduced.  Mean  solar  time  is  based  on  a  fictional  Sun  that
is considered to move at a constant rate of 360 in 24 hours along the celestial  meridian.
 One  mean  day  is  24  hours  in  length,  each  hour consisting of 60 minutes,
and each minute consisting of 60 seconds.

mean sun : an imaginary sun moving uniformly along the celestial equator.

The equation of time is the difference, over the course of a year, between time as read from a sundial and a clock.
The difference between apparent solar time and mean solar time.
The sundial can be ahead (fast) by as much as 16 min 33 s (around November 3)
or fall behind by as much as 14 min 6 s (around February 12).

TAI: international atomic time. not adjusted for leap seconds.
initially, in 1972: TAI - UTC = 10 seconds
as of 2007, total # of leap seconds: 23
	therefore, TAI - UTC = 33 seconds
TAI = UT1 on jan 1 1958
as of 2013: TAI - UTC = 35 seconds

SI second is based on the transition between two energy states in caesium atoms.
defined as a certain number of atomic vibrations.
The SI second that is counted by atomic time standards is currently defined
in such a way that its length matches the nominal second of 1/86400 of a mean solar day between 1750 and 1892.

Cross-sell is a marketing term for the practice of suggesting related products
or services to a customer who is considering buying something. (e.g., would you like fries with that?)

Up-sell is a marketing term for the practice of suggesting higher priced products or
 services to a customer who is considering a purchase. (e.g., Would you like to biggie-size that?")

bear repeated viewing

prototype:  An original type, form, or instance serving as a basis or standard for later stages.
An original, full-scale, and usually working model of a new product or new version of an existing product

loose coupling: means a reduction in assumptions between components.

In computer science, a reference is an object containing information which refers to
 data stored elsewhere, as opposed to containing the data itself. Accessing the
value referred to by a reference is called dereferencing it.
More generally, a reference can be considered as a piece of data that allows
unique retrieval of another piece of data.
A reference may be compared to the address of a house. It is a small identifier
 from which it is possible to find a potentially much larger object.
Finding a house based on its address is analogous to dereferencing a reference.
Dereference a pointer.

32-bit: Most CPUs are currently (as of 2005) designed so that the contents of
a single integer register can store the address (location) of any datum in
the computer's virtual memory. Therefore, the total number of addresses
in the virtual memory  the total amount of data the computer can keep
in its working area  is determined by the width of these registers.
32-bit --> 4G of memory.

load balancer: A load balancer can be used to increase the capacity of a server
 farm beyond that of a single server. It can also allow the service to
continue even in the face of server down time due to server failure or server maintenance.
A load balancer consists of a virtual server (also referred to as vserver or VIP) which,
in turn, consists of an IP address and port. This virtual server is bound to a number
 of physical services running on the physical servers in a server farm. These physical
 services contain the physical server's IP address and port. A client sends a request
 to the virtual server, which in turn selects a physical server in the server farm
and directs this request to the selected physical server. Load balancers are sometimes referred to as "directors"

Designers may not (or, more likely, cannot) be aware of future implementation difficulties
 when writing a design for an unimplemented software product.

grand poobah: The name has come to be used as a mocking title for someone self-important
or high-ranking and who exhibits an inflated self-regard.

wonk: A student who studies excessively; One who studies an issue or a topic thoroughly or excessively

give something a lick and a promise: to clean something quickly and not carefully;
to do a job or piece of work quickly and not carefully.

lick your chops: to be eager to do something that you think will be satisfying or pleasant

alpha testing: testing of an application when development is nearing completion;
minor design changes may still be made as a result of such testing.
Typically done by end-users or others, not by programmers or testers.

beta testing: testing when development and testing are essentially completed and
final bugs and problems need to be found before final release. Typically done by
 end-users or others, not by programmers or testers.

make out: to discern, to understand, to represent, to fare, ..

demonym: Place name-based label that describes a resident of a particular city, territory, or country.
endonym: a name used by a group of people to refer to themselves.
    Deutschen is the endonym of a people known in English as German
exonym: a name given to a place by foreigners: Londres is an exonym of London.
"Llundain" is the Welsh exonym for the English endonym "London."
 China, India and Germany are the English exonyms corresponding to the endonyms Zhongguo, Bharat and Deutschland, respectively.

put stock in: to believe in.

past isn't necessarily prologue

opportunity cost: The value of the best foregone opportunity when a choice is made.

Sherman pledge: a remark made by American Civil War General William Tecumseh Sherman:
"If drafted, I will not run; if nominated, I will not accept; if elected, I will not serve."

as much as it breaks my heart to say that I cannot make it to the event...

zeitgeist: is originally a German expression that means "the spirit of the age".
It describes the intellectual and cultural climate of an era. In German, the word has
 more layers of meaning than the English translation, including the fact that
 Zeitgeist can only be observed for past events.

truthiness : "something that is spoken as if true that one wants others to believe is true,
that said often enough with enough voices orchestrated behind it, might even sound true, but is not true."
Believing in something without regard for evidence, logic, intellectual examination, or actual facts.

flash in the pan: Something which disappoints by failing to deliver anything of value,
despite a showy beginning.

portmanteau: a new word formed by joining two others and combining their meanings;
"`smog' is a blend of `smoke' and `fog'"; "`motel' is a portmanteau word made by
combining `motor' and `hotel'"; "`brunch' is a well-known portmanteau"

neologism: a new word

A nonce word is a word used only "for the nonce" to meet a need that is not expected to recur

Pi is the ratio of a circle's circumference to its diameter in Euclidean geometry,

radian: a unit of plane angle, a unit of angular measurement. equal to 180/pi degrees.
One radian is the angle subtended at the center of a circle by an arc of length equal to
 the radius of the circle.

mulligan: A golf shot not tallied against the score, granted in informal play after a poor
 shot especially from the tee.
A mulligan, in a game, happens when a player gets a second chance to perform a certain move or action.

A QAM tuner is a device present in some digital televisions and similar
devices which enables direct reception of digital cable channels without
 the use of a set-top box. QAM stands for "quadrature amplitude modulation,"
the format by which digital cable channels are encoded and transmitted via
 cable. QAM tuners can be likened to the cable equivalent of an ATSC tuner
 which is required to receive over-the-air (OTA) digital channels broadcast
 by local television stations.
Most cable companies don't encrypt the digital signals that they pick up from local broadcasters.

SDTV: 480i, or 525i (When they broadcast video information, they need
to give CRT-type TVs time to reset the electronic beam to the top
of the screen so it can get ready to paint the next sequence of
lines. So they build in an interframe gap that equals about 45
lines. There is no picture information in this 45 line gap it
is there just to allow the TV time to get ready to receive the next frame).
30 frames per second. 1/60 second in one pass.

EDTV: 480p, or 525p

HDTV: 1080i and 720p

ATSC: used to receive HD signals over the air.

The biggest difference between HDTV signals on a cable system and those
 broadcast over the air revolves around the system used to modulate an
 HDTV signal for transmission as radio-frequency signals across the cable system.
HD signals are modulated for transmission.
Broadcast HDTV uses a system called 8-VSB (vestigial sideband), while cable
usually uses a system called QAM (quadrature amplitude modulation).

For a lot of people, HDTV cable service comes through an HDTV set-top box
(or cable box) that has a built-in QAM tuner.
the channels are also encrypted (scrambled)

In some cable systems, the local broadcast HDTV channels are transmitted across the cable system unencrypted.

*  TVs are being built as digital-cable-ready(DCR) - just as regular analog TVs have been built as
cable-ready for analog cable for years. These DCR TVs have a QAM tuner built-in and a slot for a
"smart card" called the CableCARD.

* Some cable companies rent these CableCARDs to their customers. A customer
 with a CableCARD and a DCR HDTV can simply plug the CableCARD into the HDTV -
the card basically gives your TV "permission" to unscramble encrypted premium channels.

modulation is the process of varying a periodic waveform, i.e. a tone, in order to use that signal to convey a message.

tuner
A tuner is a circuit module or free-standing equipment which detects radio-frequency (RF)
signals usually of low amplitude and amplifies them and converts them to a form suitable for further processing.

radio tuner:
receives radio broadcasts and converts them into audio-frequency signals
 which can be fed into an amplifier driving a loudspeaker.

the time it takes light to fly across 400k km to earth.
you see them as they were a billionth of a second earlier.

relativistic aberration: The shape, position or orientation of an object
seen by a person moving near the speed of light can be quite unusual, and
even different to what is predicted by the non-optical aspects of Einstein's
theory of special relativity, such as length contraction. This is due to
the purely visual effects of angular compression and distortion.
Angular compression:
As we travel faster, light appears to come at us from different angles.
as we travel close to the speed of light, the angles of light coming towards us
from all sides appear to contract, such that more light approaches us from in front.
Among other things, this has the effect of allowing a moving observer
 to see behind them. Watch what happens to an arrow originally behind
the green dot as it accelerates. Aberration allows objects which normally
 make an obtuse angle (greater than 90 degrees) with the direction of
 motion to be wrapped forward into the field of view.
Distortion:
 is a visual effect that arises because the speed of light is not infinite,
so light takes some small amount of time to travel a certain distance.
Therefore, light from distant objects must leave earlier in time than
light from closer objects in order for that light to enter an observer's eye at the same time.
When things move at relativistic speeds, however, this effect is noticeable on a
more local scale. This is because in the short time between seeing one part
of an object and another, its enormous speed allows it to move a significant
distance. This has the effect of making objects appear distorted; possible bent,
 curved or twisted. For example, long rods may appear as parabolic arcs
bending away from the viewer, and cubes can present curved edges or
 non-parallel surfaces. Surprisingly, distortion cancels the effect
 of length contraction in the case of a sphere, which will always
 look circular to a moving observer.

pilot: One who, though not belonging to a ship's company, is licensed to conduct a ship into and out of port or through dangerous waters.
  A television program produced as a prototype of a series being considered for adoption by a network.
pilot light: small auxiliary gas burner that provides a flame to ignite a larger gas burner

A hull is the body of a ship or boat.

In boats and ships, keel can refer to either of two parts: a structural element, or a hydrodynamic element.
A structural keel is a large beam which the hull of a ship is built around.
The keel runs in the middle of the ship, from the bow to the stern, and
 serves as the foundation or spine of the structure, providing the
major source of structural strength of the hull.

Displacement is the actual total weight of the vessel. It is often expressed
in long tons or in metric tons, and is calculated simply by multiplying the
volume of the hull below the waterline (ie. the volume of water it is displacing) by the density of the water.
The word "displacement" arises from the basic physical law, discovered by Archimedes,
 that the weight of a floating object equates exactly to that of the water which
 would otherwise occupy the "hole in the water" displaced by the ship.

Lightship measures the actual weight of the ship with no fuel, passengers, cargo, water, etc. on board.

Deadweight (often abbreviated as DWT for deadweight tonnes) is the displacement at any loaded
 condition minus the lightship weight. It includes the crew, passengers, cargo, fuel, water,
 and stores. Like Displacement, it is often expressed in long tons or in metric tons.

Bulk cargo is commodity cargo that is transported unpackaged in large quantities.
These cargos are usually dropped or poured, with a spout or shovel bucket, as a
 liquid or solid, into a bulk carrier's hold, railroad car, or tanker truck/trailer/semi-trailer
 body. Bulk cargos are classified as liquid or dry.
dry bulk cargo: coal, grain, cement
liquid bulk cargo: petroleum, gasoline

A bulk carrier, bulk freighter, or bulker is a merchant ship used to transport
unpackaged bulk cargo such as cereals, coal, ore, and cement.

Roll-on/roll-off (RORO or ro-ro) ships are designed to carry wheeled cargo such as
automobiles, trailers or railroad cars. This is in contrast to lo-lo (lift on-lift off)
vessels which use a crane to load and unload cargo.

The draft (or draught) of a ship's hull is the vertical distance between the waterline and the
bottom of the hull (keel), with the thickness of the hull included

Tonnage is a measure of the size or cargo capacity of a ship (in units of 100 cubic feet.)

Suezmax is a naval architecture term for the largest ships capable of transiting the Suez Canal fully loaded,

Ships classified as Panamax are of the maximum dimensions that will fit through
the locks of the Panama Canal. This size is determined by the dimensions of the
lock chambers, and the depth of the water in the canal.

A lock is a device for raising and lowering boats between stretches of water of
different levels on river and canal waterways. The distinguishing feature of a
lock is a fixed chamber whose water level can be varied; whereas in a caisson
lock, a boat lift, or on a canal inclined plane, it is the chamber itself
that moves, and is then called a caisson

caisson: A watertight structure within which construction work is carried on under water.

culvert: A sewer or drain crossing under a road or embankment.

A pallet (sometimes called a skid) is a flat transport structure designed to support
 a variety of goods in a stable fashion while being lifted by any mobile forklift,
pallet jack, or other jacking device. The goods are placed on top of the pallet,
 and can be secured to it by straps or stretch-wrapped plastic film.

A Trailer is generally an unpowered vehicle pulled by a powered vehicle. Commonly,
the term trailer refers to such vehicles used for transport of goods and materials.

A semi-trailer is a trailer without a front axle. A large proportion of its weight
is supported either by a road tractor or by a detachable front axle assembly known
 as a dolly or by the tail of another trailer.
A road tractor coupled to a semi-trailer is often called a semi-trailer truck or semi.

Intermodal freight transport involves the transportation of freight in a container
 or vehicle, using multiple modes of transportation (rail, ocean vessel, and truck),
without any handling of the freight itself when changing modes.

Exits will be numbered from south to north and west to east. Each exit number is
determined by the number of miles it is from the beginning of a route. For example,
on Interstate 5, exit No. 1 is just north of the Mexican border and Exit 796 is the
off-ramp before the freeway enters Oregon, 796 miles north of the Mexican border.

loaded for bear: ready and eager to deal with something that is going to be difficult

Cognitive dissonance is a psychological term describing the uncomfortable tension
that may result from having two conflicting thoughts at the same time, or from engaging
in behavior that conflicts with one's beliefs.

Electrical impedance, or simply impedance, describes a measure of opposition
to a sinusoidal alternating current (AC). Electrical impedance extends the
concept of resistance to AC circuits, describing not only the relative
amplitudes of the voltage and current, but also the relative phases.

Impedance is the measure of the amount that some object impedes (or obstructs) the
flow of a current. Impedance might refer to resistance, reactance, or some complex combination of the two.

Impedance matching is the practice of attempting to make the output impedance of
a source equal to the input impedance of the load to which it is ultimately connected,
usually in order to maximize the power transfer and minimize reflections from the load.
 This only applies when both are linear devices. The concept of impedance matching was
originally developed for electrical power,

Electrical resistance is a measure of the degree to which an object opposes an electric current through it

object-relational impedance mismatch: refer to the difficulty encountered when mapping
a relation database model to an object model.

cheiloschisis, harelip: cleft lip

demographic: A shortened term for 'population characteristics

refactoring: the practice of restructuring the internals of a program without altering the
external behavior of a program, in an effort to improve readability and/or maintenance.

mountebank:  A hawker of quack medicines who attracts customers with stories, jokes, or tricks;
a charlatan.

verisimilitude - the appearance of truth; the quality of seeming to be true

homeostasis: The ability or tendency of an organism or cell to maintain internal equilibrium by adjusting its
physiological processes.

gore point, gore zone: a triangular piece of land found where roads merge or split.

jersey barrier, jersey wall: separates lanes of traffic (often opposing lanes of traffic) with a goal
of minimizing vehicle crossover in the case of accidents.

hibernation:
Animals enter hibernation during winter to conserve energy by going into a deep sleep-like state.
Mammals, such as gophers, bears, skunks, raccoons, hamsters, and bats, lower their metabolism
and enter a state of torpor, but they are not asleep.
A list of hibernating animals might include the following mammals: Chipmunks, ground squirrels,
echidnas, possums, hedgehogs, hamsters, skunks, bats, prairie dogs, marmots, badgers, and some lemurs.
Among non-mammals, you can find species of lizards, frogs, toads, newts, snakes, turtles, and
insects like bees that hibernate

Torpor is a kind of deep sleep accompanied by drastically lowered body temperature,
heart rate, and breathing. Like a short-term hibernation.

Estivation or aestivation (from Latin aestas, summer) is a rare state of
dormancy similar to hibernation, but during the months of the summer.

Cold-blooded animals (ectotherms) are animals that do not have an internal mechanism
for regulating body temperature, relying instead on solar energy captured by the environment.
 Reptiles, amphibians and fish are examples of cold-blooded animals.
Cold-blooded creatures take on the temperature of their surroundings.
Warm-blooded creatures, like mammals and birds, try to keep the inside of their bodies at a constant temperature.

Warm-bloodedness generally refers to three separate aspects of thermoregulation:
1. Endothermy is the ability of some creatures to control their body temperatures
 through internal means such as muscle shivering, fat burning, and panting
2. Homeothermy is thermoregulation that maintains a stable internal body temperature regardless of external influence
3. Tachymetabolism is the kind of thermoregulation used by creatures that maintain a high resting metabolism

Cold-bloodedness generally refers to three separate areas of thermoregulation:
1. Ectothermy - This refers to creatures that control body temperature through external means
2. Poikilothermy - This refers to creatures whose internal temperatures vary, often matching the ambient temperature of the immediate environment
3. Bradymetabolism - This term refers to creatures with a high active metabolism and a
considerably slower resting metabolism

grasp at straws: Make a desperate attempt at saving oneself.
to seize at any chance, no matter how slight, of saving oneself from calamity.
This metaphoric expression alludes to a drowning person trying to save himself by grabbing at flimsy reeds.

Line-of-sight propagation refers to electro-magnetic radiation or electro-magnetic waves
 travelling in a straight line. The rays or waves are deviated or reflected by obstructions
and cannot travel over the horizon or behind obstacles. Beyond that, material disperses the
rays respectively the energy of the waves
++++
Line-of-sight transmission means the transmitting and receiving antennae can "see" each other

chomp at the bit: To show impatience or frustration when delayed.

captious: Marked by a disposition to find and point out trivial faults

quibble, carp, cavil, niggle, nitpick, pettifog: These verbs mean to raise petty or frivolous objections or complaints

The standard model of particle physics is a theory that describes three of the four
 known fundamental interactions between the elementary particles that make up all matter.
 It is a quantum field theory developed between 1970 and 1973 which is consistent with both
 quantum mechanics and special relativity.
The Standard Model describes approximately 200 elementary particles and their interactions using 6 quarks,
 6 leptons and a few force-carrying particles.
strong force: gluon
electromagnetic: photon
weak nuclear: W+, W-, Z
gravity: graviton (unconfirmed)
two categories of particles: quark and lepton.
lepton (e.g., electron): are immune to the strong force. have no color
quarks have color (a property akin to spin)

boson: force-carrying particle

Refraction is the change in direction of a wave due to a change in its speed. This is
most commonly seen when a wave passes from one medium to another.

Diffraction refers to various phenomena associated with the bending of waves when they
interact with obstacles in their path.

Onomatopoeia: The formation or use of words such as buzz or murmur that imitate the sounds
associated with the objects or actions they refer to.

Key Performance Indicators (KPI) are financial and non-financial metrics used to quantify objectives
to reflect strategic performance of an organization.

Everything Balances Out in the End.

snigger, snicker: a disrespectful laugh

buy a pig in a poke: make a risky purchase without inspecting the item beforehand.

neither a borrower, nor a lender be

bridge (dental): missing teeth replaced by false teeth attached to crowns on neighboring teeth.

weasel word: a word used in order to mislead a person or to avoid a straight answer.

national party convention: convention delegates select party nominee.
primary election: not a direct election. voting for a delegate allied with
a particular candidate.
Before the primary or caucus, each candidate on a state's ballot submits the names of
local Democrats who would serve as their delegates at the national convention, if necessary.
However, voters do not directly select presidential nominees in these primaries. Instead,
they choose delegates from their respective states who will attend a national party convention
to nominate a presidential candidate for their party.

dodgy: risky; marked by skill in deception

extraordinary claims require extraordinary proofs.

hustings: A place where political campaign speeches are made; The activities involved in political campaigning
on the hustings: on the stump

fiat currency: money backed by faith (backed by an authority)

gold standard is a monetary system in which the standard economic unit of account is a
fixed weight of gold. Under the gold standard, currency issuers guarantee
to redeem notes, upon demand, in that amount of gold.
In other words, gold standard is a monetary system under which the issuer of a currency
guarantee to redeem the currency for a fixed amount of gold.
history of money: commodity money (in which actual valuable objects are bartered);
representative money (in which paper notes are used represent real commodities stored
elsewhere; fiat money (in which paper notes are backed only by a government.

The theory of the gold standard rests on the idea that inflation is caused by
 an increase in the supply of money, an idea advocated by David Hume, and that
 uncertainty over the future purchasing power of currency depresses business
confidence and leads to reduced trade and capital investment.

advantage: limit inflation disadvantage: Loss of control over economic policy
Prevent the country from printing too much money.
To avoid a gold standard-generated run on the dollar.

Bretton Woods System (1946) created a system of fixed exchange rates that allowed
governments to sell their gold to the United States treasury at the price of $35/ounce.
"The Bretton Woods system ended on August 15, 1971, when President Richard Nixon ended
trading of gold at the fixed price of $35/ounce. Fixed the dollar to gold and fixed
other nations' currencies to the dollar.

The value of money is set by the supply and demand for money and the supply and demand
for other goods and services in the economy.

The Double Coincidence of Wants: the situation where the supplier of good A wants good B
and the supplier of good B wants good A.

de jure: by right, according to law

de rigueur: Required by the current fashion or custom; socially obligatory.

du jour: Prepared for a given day; Most recent

periapical: At or around the apex of the root of a tooth

meconium: A dark green fecal material that accumulates in the fetal intestines and is discharged at or near the time of birth

adjuvant: serving to aid; assisting in the amelioration of disesse;
A pharmacological agent added to a drug to increase or aid its effect.

Thomas Robert Malthus: British economist who wrote An Essay on the Principle of Population (1798),
arguing that population tends to increase faster than food supply, with inevitably disastrous
results, unless the increase in population is checked by moral restraints or by war, famine, and disease
Malthusian: his theory.

The spot market or cash market is a commodities or securities market in which
goods are sold for cash and delivered immediately. Contracts bought and sold on
 these markets are immediately effective.

Lucullan: lavish and luxurious.

synergy:  The interaction of two or more agents or forces so that their
 combined effect is greater than the sum of their individual effects

caduceus: a symbol of the medical profession

legislature: An officially elected or otherwise selected body of people vested with the
responsibility and power to make laws for a political unit, such as a state or nation.
Legislatures are known by many names, the most common being parliament and congress,
although these terms also have more specific meanings. The main job of the legislature
is to make and interpret laws. In parliamentary systems of government, the legislature
is formally supreme and appoints the executive. In presidential systems of government,
the legislature is considered a power branch which is equal to, and independent of,
the executive.

In most parliamentary systems, the lower house is the more powerful house while
 the upper house is merely a chamber of advice or review.

A parliamentary system, also known as parliamentarianism (and parliamentarism in
 U.S. English), is distinguished by the executive branch of government being
dependent on the direct or indirect support of the parliament, often expressed
through a vote of confidence. Hence, there is no clear-cut separation of powers
between the executive and legislative branches, leading to a differing set of
 checks and balances compared to those found in a presidential republic.
Parliamentary systems usually have a clear differentiation between the head
of government and the head of state, with the head of government being the
prime minister or premier, and the head of state often being an elected
 (either popularly or through parliament) president or hereditary monarch.

A federation (Latin: foedus, covenant) is a union comprising a number of partially
 self-governing states or regions united by a central ("federal") government. In
a federation, the self-governing status of the component states is typically
constitutionally entrenched and may not be altered by a unilateral decision of the central government.

The form of government or constitutional structure found in a federation is known as federalism.
It can be considered the opposite of another system, the unitary state

The Head of Government is the chief officer of the executive branch of a government,
often presiding over a cabinet. In a parliamentary system, the head of government is
often styled Prime Minister, Premier, etc. In presidential republics or monarchies,
 the head of government may be the same person as the head of state, who is often a president
(of the republic) or a monarch.

head of state: or Chief of state is the generic term for the individual or
collective office that serves as the chief public representative of a monarchic
 or republican nation-state, federation, commonwealth or any other political
 state. His or her role generally includes personifying the continuity and
legitimacy of the state and exercising the political powers, functions and
duties granted the head of state in the country's laws and constitution.
+++
presides over ceremonial functions. usually does not have governing power.

Different countries have different executive systems but in essence four major, generalizing categories can be distinguished:

   1. the non-executive head of state system, in which the head of state does not
	 hold any executive power and mainly plays a symbolic role on behalf of the state;
   2. the parliamentary system, in which the head of state possesses executive
	 power but the exercise of this power is done on the advice of a cabinet;
   3. the presidential (or imperial) system, in which the head of state is also
	the head of government and actively exercises executive power; and,
   4. the semi-presidential system, in which the head of state shares exercise
	of executive power with a head of government.

A presidential system, also called a congressional system, is a system of government
 where an executive branch exists and presides (hence the term) separately from the
legislature, to which it is not accountable and which cannot in normal circumstances dismiss it.

two-round system: runoff voting

A cabinet is a body of high-ranking members of government, typically representing
the executive branch. It can also sometimes be referred to as the Council of Ministers,
an Executive Council or an Executive Committee.
In some countries, particularly those under the Westminster system, the cabinet
collectively decides the government's policy and tactical direction, especially
in regard to legislation passed by the parliament. In countries with a presidential
system, such as the United States, the cabinet does not function as a collective
legislative influence; rather, their primary role is as an unofficial advisory
council to the head of government, consisting of the heads of the executive departments
 they are appointed to lead.

A coalition government, or coalition cabinet, is a cabinet of a parliamentary government
in which several parties cooperate. The usual reason given for this arrangement is
that no party on its own can achieve a majority in the parliament.

Single transferable vote (STV) is a preferential voting system designed to minimize
 wasted votes and provide proportional representation while ensuring that votes are
explicitly for candidates rather than party lists. It achieves this by using multi-seat
constituencies (districts) and by transferring votes that would otherwise be wasted.
 STV initially allocates an individual's vote to his or her most preferred candidate,
 and then subsequently transfers unneeded or unused votes after candidates are either
elected or eliminated, according to the voter's stated preferences

first past the post: winner-takes-all, plurality voting.
The plurality voting system is a single-winner voting system often used to elect
executive officers or to elect members of a legislative assembly which is based on single-member
constituencies.
A voting system in which a single winner is chosen in a given constituency by having
more votes than any other individual representative.
+++
the person receiving the greatest number of votes in each voting region wins.

Proportional representation (sometimes referred to as full representation, or PR), is
a category of electoral formula aiming at a close match between the percentage of votes
 that groups of candidates (grouped by a certain measure) obtain in elections and the
percentage of seats they receive (usually in legislative assemblies).
PR: the number of seats allocated to a group is proportional to the number of votes
received by that group.

parliamentary democracy relies upon the election of representatives from each voting region
 to form a governing body.
The party that holds the majority in parliament is held to be in control, and its leader
becomes the prime minister.
+++
parliamentary representatives are elected by voting regions.

A person is considered LEGALLY blind when the best corrected visual acuity is 20/200
People with a visual field of less than 20 degrees diameter (10 degrees radius) are also considered legally blind

cousin:
A system of degrees and removes is used to describe the relationship between the
two cousins and the ancestor they have in common. The degree (first, second, third
cousin, etc.) indicates the minimum number of generations between either cousin and
the nearest common ancestor; the remove (once removed, twice removed, etc.) indicates
 the number of generations, if any, separating the two cousins from each other.
For example, a person with whom you share a grandparent is your first cousin; someone
with whom you share a great-grandparent is a second cousin. Where your relationship
to the nearest common ancestor is different from your cousin's relationship then the
 term removed is used to indicate this, for example the child of your first cousin
is your first cousin once removed because there is a generation between you.

ceteris paribus a Latin phrase, literally translated as "with other things [being] the same,"
and usually rendered in English as "all other things being equal", "all else being equal"

boundary condition: The set of conditions specified for the solution to
a set of differential equations at the boundary of its domain.
In mathematics, in the field of differential equations, a boundary value problem is
 a differential equation together with a set of additional restraints, called the
boundary conditions. A solution to a boundary value problem is a solution to the
 differential equation which also satisfies the boundary conditions.

The rotation curve of a galaxy can be represented by a graph that plots the orbital
velocity of the stars or gas in the galaxy on the y-axis against the distance from the
 center of the galaxy on the x-axis. Stars revolve around the center of galaxies at a
constant speed over a large range of distances from the center of the galaxy. Thus they
 revolve much faster than would be expected if they were in a free Newtonian potential.
=================
The galaxy rotation problem is this discrepancy between the observed rotation speeds of
 matter in the disk portions of spiral galaxies and the predictions of
Newtonian dynamics considering the visible mass.
=================
One of the theories for explaining this discrepancy is the presence of dark matter.
Galactic rotation curves, which illustrate the velocity of rotation versus the distance
from the galactic center, cannot be explained by only the visible matter.
Hypothetical form of matter for explaining the discrepancy between the observed
speed and the theoretical speed of stars revolving around the center of galaxies.

dark matter halo:
Most of the mass of any galaxy is dominated by a component concentrated at
the centre of the galaxy but dominating its dynamics throughout, known as the dark matter halo.
The presence of dark matter in the halo is demonstrated by its gravitational effect
 on a spiral galaxy's rotation curve. Without large amounts of mass in the extended halo,
the rotational velocity of the galaxy should decrease at large distance from the galactic
core. However, observations of spiral galaxies, particularly radio observations of line
emission from neutral atomic hydrogen (known, in astronomical parlance, as HI), show that
 the rotation curve of most spiral galaxies remains flat far beyond the visible matter.
 The absence of any visible matter to account for these observations implies the presence
 of unobserved (i.e. dark) matter. Asserting that this dark matter does not exist would
 mean that the accepted theory of gravitation (General Relativity) is wrong, something
that could be possible but most scientists would require extensive amounts of compelling evidence before considering it.

dark matter is a hypothetical form of matter that does not emit or reflect enough
electromagnetic radiation to be observed directly, but whose presence can be inferred
 from gravitational effects on visible matter.

corvee: unpaid labor

choke point: A narrow passage, such as a strait, through which shipping must pass;
a point of congestion or obstruction (bottleneck)

Nucleation is the onset of a phase transition in a small region. The phase
transition can be the formation of a bubble or of a crystal from a liquid.
 Creation of liquid droplets in saturated vapor or the creation of gaseous
bubble in a saturated liquid is also characterized by nucleation

Nucleation normally occurs at nucleation sites on surfaces containing
 the liquid or vapor. Suspended particles or minute bubbles also provide
nucleation sites. This is called heterogeneous nucleation. Nucleation without
 preferential nucleation sites is homogeneous nucleation. Homogeneous nucleation
occurs spontaneously and randomly, but it requires superheating or supercooling of the medium.

Supercooling is the process of chilling a liquid below its freezing point, without it becoming solid.
A liquid below its freezing point will crystallize in the presence of a seed
crystal or nucleus around which a crystal structure can form. However, lacking
any such nucleus, the liquid phase can be maintained all the way down to the
temperature at which crystal homogeneous nucleation occurs.

superheating (sometimes referred to as boiling retardation, or boiling delay)
is the phenomenan in which a liquid is heated to a temperature higher than
its standard boiling point, without actually boiling. This can be caused by
 rapidly heating a homogeneous substance while leaving it undisturbed
 (in order to avoid the introduction of bubbles at nucleation sites).

Small particles (seeds) can trigger the separation of the dissolved material
 from the solvent or condensation of the vapor. Seeds triggering the
condensation of vapor are referred to as condensation nuclei, as in the case of water vapor.

Supersaturation refers to a solution that contains more of the
dissolved material than could be dissolved by the solvent under normal
circumstances. It can also refer to a vapor of a compound that has a
higher (partial) pressure than the vapor pressure of that compound.

Carbonated water is a supersaturated solution of carbon dioxide gas in water.
 At the elevated pressure in the bottle, carbon dioxide can dissolve in water
 more than at atmospheric pressure. At atmospheric pressure, the carbon
 dioxide gas escapes very slowly from the supersaturated liquid. This
process may be accelerated by the presence of nucleation sites within
 the solution, such as small bubbles, caused by shaking the bottle,
or another solute, such as sugar powder or a widget. A Diet Coke and
 Mentos eruption is a rather extreme example. Some beverage products
 such as ales and stouts e.g. Guinness rely on this effect to produce
 the 'head' on the surface of the poured product.
Scuba divers' tissues become supersaturated with breathing gases during a dive.
If the diver ascends too fast, these gases form bubbles, resulting in decompression sickness.
In air that is supersaturated with water, water droplets may precipitate upon being disturbed.

Vapor pressure (also known as equilibrium vapor pressure or saturation vapor pressure),
is the pressure of a vapor in equilibrium with its non-vapor phases. All liquids and
solids have a tendency to evaporate to a gaseous form, and all gases have a tendency
to condense back into their original form (either liquid or solid). At any given
temperature, for a particular substance, there is a pressure at which the gas of
that substance is in dynamic equilibrium with its liquid or solid forms. This is
the vapor pressure of that substance at that temperature. The equilibrium vapor
pressure is an indication of a liquid's evaporation rate. It relates to the tendency
 of molecules and atoms to escape from a liquid or a solid.

The boiling point of a liquid is the temperature at which the vapor pressure
 of the liquid equals the environmental pressure surrounding the liquid

desert:   Something that is deserved or merited, especially a punishment.
just deserts. (pronounced like dessert)

cardiac arrest: also known as cardiorespiratory arrest, cardiopulmonary arrest
or circulatory arrest, is the abrupt cessation of normal circulation of the blood
due to failure of the heart to contract effectively during systole.
Cardiac arrest is an abrupt cessation of pump function
(evidenced by absence of a palpable pulse) of the heart

heart attack or myocardial infarction, where blood flow to the still-beating heart is interrupted.
is a medical condition that occurs when the blood supply to a part of the heart is
interrupted, most commonly due to rupture of a vulnerable plaque

carried to its logical conclusion

you'll likely be none the wiser.

According to AAA auto experts, topping off your tank is not a good idea.
 When you overfill your tank, you are taking up the space needed for
the emissions system to operate correctly. The pump is designed to
turn off when the fuel reaches a certain level, leaving the necessary
room in the tank to capture vapors. If there's too much liquid in the
tank, there's also a chance gas can spill on the ground.
vapor recovery system??

idiopathic: designating a disease having no known cause

Paresthesia: A skin sensation, such as burning, prickling, itching, or tingling,
or numbness with no apparent physical cause.

wheedle: to cajole ( To persuade or attempt to persuade by flattery or guile)
To obtain through the use of flattery or guile

riff: A clever or inventive commentary or remark

dipped into the cliche well.

too far in the past;
too far in the future

Opportunity cost is the cost (sacrifice) incurred by choosing one option over
an alternative one that may be equally desired.
Opportunity cost is the cost of pursuing one choice instead of another.
Every action has an opportunity cost.
Opportunity cost is not restricted to monetary or financial costs: the real
 cost of output forgone, lost time, pleasure or any other benefit that provides
 utility should also be considered.
When economists refer to the "opportunity cost" of a resource, they mean the
value of the next-best alternative use of that resource. If, for
example, you spend time and money going to a movie, you cannot spend that
time at home reading a book, and you can't spend the money on something else.
 If your next-best alternative to seeing the movie is reading the book, then
the opportunity cost of seeing the movie is the money spent plus the pleasure
you forgo by not reading the book.
Scarcity of resources is one of the more basic concepts of economics.
Scarcity necessitates trade-offs, and trade-offs result in an opportunity
cost. While the cost of a good or service often is thought of in monetary
 terms, the opportunity cost of a decision is based on what must be given
up (the next best alternative) as a result of the decision. Any decision
that involves a choice between two or more options has an opportunity cost.

TANSTAAFL is an acronym for the adage "There Ain't No Such Thing As A Free Lunch,"
popularized by science fiction writer Robert A. Heinlein in his 1966 novel
The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress, which discusses the problems caused by
 not considering the eventual outcome of an unbalanced economy.

The parable of the broken window was created by Frdric Bastiat in his 1850
essay Ce qu'on voit et ce qu'on ne voit pas (That Which Is Seen and That Which Is Unseen)
 to illuminate the notion of hidden costs.
Bastiat uses this story to introduce a concept he calls the broken window fallacy,
 which is related to the law of unintended consequences, in that both involve an
incomplete accounting for the consequences of an action.
The parable describes a shopkeeper whose window is broken by a little boy. Everyone
sympathizes with the man whose window was broken, but pretty soon they start to
suggest that the broken window makes work for the glazier, who will then buy
bread, benefiting the baker, who will then buy shoes, benefiting the cobbler,
 etc. Finally, the onlookers conclude that the little boy was not guilty of
vandalism; instead he was a public benefactor, creating economic benefits for everyone in town.
The fallacy of the onlookers' argument is that they considered only the positive
benefits of purchasing a new window, but they ignored the cost to the shopkeeper. As
 the shopkeeper was forced to spend his money on a new window, he obviously could
not have spent it on something else. For example, the shopkeeper may have spent
the money on bread and shoes for himself, but now cannot so enrich the baker and
cobbler because he must fix his window.
Thus, the child did not bring any net benefit to the town. Instead, he made the
town poorer by at least the value of one window, if not more

electoral college:
Under the Electoral College system, we do not elect the President and Vice President through
a direct nation-wide vote. The Presidential election is decided by the combined results
 of 51 State elections (in this context, the term "State" includes DC).
 Your vote helps decide which candidate receives your State's electoral votes.
Generally, the political parties nominate electors at their State party conventions
or by a vote of the party's central committee in each State. Electors are often
selected to recognize their service and dedication to their political party. They
may be State elected officials, party leaders, or persons who have a personal or
political affiliation with the Presidential candidate. Then the voters in each
State choose the electors on the day of the general election.
Electoral votes are awarded on the basis of the popular vote in each State.
If no candidate receives a majority of electoral votes, the House of Representatives
 elects the President from the 3 Presidential candidates who received the most
electoral votes. Each State delegation has one vote. The Senate would elect
the Vice President from the 2 Vice Presidential candidates with the most
electoral votes. Each Senator would cast one vote for Vice President. If
the House of Representatives fails to elect a President by Inauguration
 Day, the Vice-President Elect serves as acting President until the deadlock is resolved in the House.
Maine and Nebraska do not do winner-takes-all
For example, Maine has four electoral votes. Two electors are selected on
the basis of the statewide vote and two are selected according to outcome
 of the vote in each of Maine's two Congressional districts. Nebraska's five
electoral votes are distributed in the same manner:   two based on the statewide
vote, and three based on the results in Congressional districts.
The Electoral College was established by the founding fathers as a compromise between
election of the president by Congress and election by popular vote. The electors are
a popularly elected body chosen by the States and the District of Columbia on the
Tuesday after the first Monday in November
The slates of electors are generally chosen by the political parties.
No Constitutional provision or Federal law requires electors to vote in accordance with
the popular vote in their States.

undivided interest: The interest in property owned by tenants whereby each tenant has
an equal right to enjoy the entire property.
An ownership right to use and possession of a property that is shared among co-owners,
with no one co-owner having exclusive rights to any portion of the property.

deductible: the amount a person must pay first (in addition to the premium) before
insurance coverage will pay for a loss on an insurance claim.
The amount a beneficiary pays out-of-pocket before insurance benefits are paid.
The annual deductible is the amount you are responsible for under the health plan
before the health plan will begin to pay.

copay: copay is usually a flat fee. For example, every time you go to the doctor
 you pay a 25.00 copay for the office visit, regardless of the level of service you receive.
Co-payments are charged and paid at the time you receive certain types of services,
such as office visits, prescription drugs, and emergency room services.
 These charges do not apply to the out-of-pocket maximum??

Coinsurance: coinsurance is a term used for a percentage amount you are responsible for.
For example if your insurance policy is 80/20, where you are responsible for paying 20% of
your bill, the 20% is a coinsurance.
Coinsurance is the percentage of each claim above the deductible that you pay.
 If the coinsurance is 20 percent, you pay for the deductible plus 20% of the covered expenses.
Coinsurance Applies After The Services.

the main difference between assisted living and a nursing home is "the level of care
someone needs." She says a nursing home would be the right choice for someone who
 doesn't need to be in a hospital, but who needs fairly constant nursing care.
An assisted living facility typically offers more independence and less intensive medical care
a nursing home is a facility designed for someone who needs less care than a
 hospital, but requires daily health care assistance.
Assisted-living: provide assistance with the activities of daily living (cooking,
laundry, etc). not required to provide health care.

Ultra high frequency (UHF) designates a range (band) of electromagnetic waves with
 frequencies between 300 MHz and 3 GHz (3,000 MHz).

Radio waves with frequencies above the UHF band fall into the SHF (Super high frequency)
 and EHF (Extremely high frequency) bands; all of which fall into the Microwave frequency range.

Very high frequency (VHF) is the radio frequency range from 30 MHz to 300 MHz

Common uses for VHF are FM radio broadcast, television broadcast (together with UHF)

VHF propagation characteristics are ideal for short-distance terrestrial communication,
with a range generally somewhat farther than line-of-sight from the transmitter.
 Unlike high frequencies (HF), the ionosphere does not usually reflect VHF radio
and thus transmissions are restricted to the local area (and don't interfere with
transmissions thousands of kilometres away). VHF is also less affected by atmospheric
 noise and interference from electrical equipment than lower frequencies. Whilst it
is more easily blocked by land features than HF and lower frequencies, it is less
 bothered by buildings and other less substantial objects than UHF frequencies.

VHF: TV channel 2-13
VHF:
88-108 MHz: FM radio broadcasting (88-92 non-commercial, 92-108 commercial in the United States)

UHF: TV channel 14-69

DTV transition:
The move would free 108 MHz of spectrum: the upper end of the UHF band, or TV channels 52 to 69.

forensic: Relating to the use of science or technology in the investigation and
establishment of facts or evidence in a court of law: a forensic laboratory;
of, relating to, or used in public debate or argument

Rorschach inkblot test:

The amount of time a trade takes to reach a certain point.

she's known not so much for her own strong character traits, but for the attributes people assume she has

Osmosis is the diffusion of water through a cell wall or membrane or any partially-permeable
barrier from a solution of low solute concentration (high water potential) to a solution
with high solute concentration (low water potential), up a solute concentration gradient.
It is a physical process in which a solvent moves, without input of energy, across a
semi-permeable membrane (permeable to the solvent, but not the solute) separating
two solutions of different concentrations.

hard up: poor

nocebo: a harmless substance that when taken by a patient is associated with harmful
effects due to negative expectations or the psychological condition of the patient

nocent: harmful

procrustean \pruh-KRUSS-tee-un\ adjective

grandfather: An exemption that allows persons or entities to continue with an activity
 they were engaging in before it became illegal through a change in regulation.
+++
Grandfather clause is a legal term used to describe a situation in which an old rule continues to apply to
some existing
situations, while a new rule will apply to all future situations.
This extends the idea of a rule not being retroactively applied.

headset jack: 2.5 mm is the standard for phone headsets, the slightly larger
3.5mm size is the standard for music headphones and devices other than phones.

reify : to regard (something abstract) as a material or concrete thing :
to give definite content and form to (something abstract)
--> taking something abstract and making it concrete
e.g. "He describes the phenomenal popularity of Edwin Markham's proletarian poem
'The Man With the Hoe,' which reified labor's feelings of injustice."

IT TAKES ONE TO KNOW ONE - "Only a person with identical character traits would be
able to recognize those traits in someone else. Often used as a curt rejoinder to
deflect an accusation; you're only saying that about me because it's true of you.

sunset provision:
A clause in a statute, regulation or similar piece of legislation that provides for
an automatic repeal of the entire or sections of a law once a specific date is reached.
 Once the sunset provision date is reached, the pieces of legislation mentioned in the
clause are rendered void. If the government wishes to extend the length of time for
 which the law in question will be in effect, it can push back the sunset provision
date any time before it is reached.

tactics are the actual means used to gain an objective, while strategy is the overall campaign plan,
tactic: An expedient for achieving a goal; a maneuver.

expedient: something that achieves a particular purpose:
e.g.: income controls were used only as a short-term expedient

beyond the shadow of a doubt

proof beyond a reasonable doubt

metering light: regulates the flow of traffic entering freeways according to current traffic conditions.

play for keeps: If you are playing for keeps, you take things very seriously
and the outcome is very important to you; it is not a mere game.

Technically, cellular systems in the United States operate in the 824-MHz to 894-MHz frequency bands;
 PCS operates in the 1850-MHz to 1990-MHz bands.

in place:
In the same spot; without moving forwards or backwards:
While marching in place, the band played a popular tune.

A continental divide is a line of elevated terrain which forms a border
 between two watersheds such that water falling on one side of the line
 eventually travels to one ocean or body of water, and water on the other
 side travels to another, generally on the opposite side of the continent.

A drainage basin is an extent of land where water from rain or snow melt drains
 downhill into a body of water, such as a river, lake, reservoir, estuary, wetland,
sea or ocean. The drainage basin includes both the streams and rivers that convey
 the water as well as the land surfaces from which water drains into those channels,
 and is separated from adjacent basins by a drainage divide.
The drainage basin acts like a funnel, collecting all the water within the
 area covered by the basin and channelling it into a waterway. Each drainage
 basin is separated topographically from adjacent basins by a geographical
barrier such as a ridge, hill or mountain, which is known as a water divide.
Other terms that are used to describe the a drainage basin are catchment,
catchment area, catchment basin, drainage area, river basin water basin and watershed.
In the technical sense, a watershed refers to a divide that separates one drainage
area from another drainage area.[3] However, in the United States and Canada, the
term is often used to mean a drainage basin or catchment area itself.

high altitude:
At high altitude, atmospheric pressure is lower compared to sea level. This
is due to two competing physical effects: gravity, which causes the air to be
 as close as possible to the ground; and the heat content of the air, which
causes the molecules to bounce off each other and expand.
Because of the lower pressure, the air expands as it rises, which causes it to cool.
Thus, high altitude air is cold,

sinecure: A position or office that requires little or no work but provides a salary.

meme:
A unit of cultural information, such as a cultural practice or idea, that is
transmitted verbally or by repeated action from one mind to another.
++++
consists of any idea or behavior that can pass from one person to another by
learning or imitation. Examples include thoughts, ideas, theories, gestures,
 practices, fashions, habits, songs, and dances. Memes propagate themselves
and can move through the cultural sociosphere in a manner similar to the contagious behavior of a virus.
++++
Richard Dawkins coined the word "meme" as a neologism in his book
The Selfish Gene (1976) to describe how one might extend evolutionary principles
 to explain the spread of ideas and cultural phenomena. He gave as examples
 melodies, catch-phrases, beliefs (notably religious belief, clothing/fashion,
and the technology of building arches)

State of matter
A state of matter (or physical state, or form of matter) has physical properties
 which are qualitatively different from other states of matter.
Traditionally three states of matter were recognized : solid which maintains
 a fixed volume and shape, liquid maintains a fixed volume but adopts the shape
 of its container, and gas which occupies the entire volume available.
+++++++
a solid to a liquid = melting (heat energy added) e.g. ice melts to water
a liquid to a gas = evaporation (heat energy added) e.g. water to water vapour
a solid to a gas = sublimation (heat energy added) e.g. dried ice (frozen CO2) to carbon dioxide
a gas to a liquid = condensation (heat energy removed) e.g. cloud to rain
a liquid to a solid = freezing (heat energy removed) e.g. water to ice
a gas to a solid = deposition (heat energy removed) e.g. water vapour to frost
++++
plasma: An electrically neutral, highly ionized gas composed of ions, electrons, and neutral particles.
 It is a phase of matter distinct from solids, liquids, and normal gases.
+++
Plasma is the fourth state of matter. It is hotter than a gas. A plasma occurs when the
temperature is between 1000 degrees C and 1,000,000,000 degrees C. Some examples of
 plasma are the charged air around lightning and stars, including our own sun.
As a gas is heated, electrons begin to leave the atoms, resulting in the presence of
free electrons, which are not bound to an atom or molecule, and ions, which are chemical
species that contain unequal number of electrons and protons, and therefore possess an
electrical charge. The free electric charges make the plasma electrically conductive so
 that it responds strongly to electromagnetic fields. At very high temperatures,
 such as those present in stars, it is assumed that essentially all electrons
 are "free," and that a very high-energy plasma is essentially bare nuclei swimming
in a sea of electrons. Plasma is believed to be the most common state of matter in the universe.
+++
plasma is an ionized gas, in which a certain proportion of electrons are free
rather than being bound to an atom or molecule. The ability of the positive and negative
 charges to move somewhat independently makes the plasma electrically conductive so
that it responds strongly to electromagnetic fields. Plasma therefore has properties
 quite unlike those of solids, liquids or gases and is considered to be a distinct
 state of matter. Plasma typically takes the form of neutral gas-like clouds (e.g. stars).
 The explanation of the example, star, is a massive, luminous ball of plasma.

Disabuse me of my ignorance

contrail:
condensation trail left behind jet aircrafts.
Contrails form when hot humid air from jet exhaust mixes with environmental air of
low vapor pressure and low temperature. The mixing is a result of turbulence generated
by the engine exhaust. Cloud formation by a mixing process is similar to the cloud you
 see when you exhale and "see your breath".
+++
How long a contrail remains intact, depends on the humidity structure and winds
of the upper troposphere. If the atmosphere is near saturation, the contrail may
 exist for sometime. On the other hand, if the atmosphere is dry then as the contrail
 mixes with the environment it dissipates.
+++
Jet fuel is made of carbon and hydrogen.
When jet fuel burns with oxygen, most of the exhaust consists of CO2 (carbon dioxide)
and H2O (water). The water is generally an invisible vapor.
+++
When you exhale, your breath contains a great deal of invisible water vapor as well.
You may have noticed that on certain days in the winter, your breath will form a cloud
of condensation when you exhale. In the summer, however, you don't see your breath.
Cold air can hold a lot less moisture than warm air, so in the winter, when the
moisture in your breath hits the cold air, the moisture condenses into a visible cloud.
+++
The same thing happens when a jet engine "exhales." If the temperature, winds and humidity
 in the upper atmosphere are right, long, white contrails form when the moisture in
 the exhaust condenses.
+++++++
The main products of hydrocarbon fuel combustion are carbon dioxide and water vapor.
At high altitudes this water vapor emerges into a cold environment, and the local
increase in water vapor can push the water content of the air past saturation point.
 The vapor then condenses into tiny water droplets and/or deposits into ice. These
 millions of tiny water droplets and/or ice crystals form the vapour trail or
contrails. The energy drop (and therefore, time and distance) the vapor needs
to condense accounts for the contrail forming some way behind the aircraft's engines.
++
Exhaust vapour trails or contrails usually occur above 8000 metres (26,000 feet). where
the temperature is below -40C.
++++++++++++++++++
Contrails are clouds formed when water vapor condenses and freezes around small
particles (aerosols) that exist in aircraft exhaust. Some of that water vapor comes
 from the air around the plane; and, some is added by the exhaust of the aircraft.

cloud:
Clouds form when relatively warm air containing water vapor is lighter than its
surrounding air and this causes it to rise. As it rises it cools and the vapor
condenses out of the air as micro-droplets. These tiny particles of water are
 relatively densely packed and sunlight cannot penetrate far into the cloud before
 it is reflected out, giving a cloud its characteristic white color. As a cloud
 matures, the droplets may combine to produce larger droplets, which may combine
to form droplets large enough to fall as rain.

absolute humidity:
is the mass of water vapor divided by the mass of dry air in a volume of air at a
given temperature. The hotter the air is, the more water it can contain.
++
relative humidity:
is the ratio of the current absolute humidity to the highest possible absolute humidity
(which depends on the current air temperature).
A reading of 100 percent relative humidity means that the air is totally saturated with
 water vapor and cannot hold any more, creating the possibility of rain. This doesn't
mean that the relative humidity must be 100 percent in order for it to rain -- it
must be 100 percent where the clouds are forming, but the relative humidity near
 the ground could be much less.
If the air is at 100-percent relative humidity, sweat will not evaporate into the
air. As a result, we feel much hotter than the actual temperature when the relative humidity is high.

"For Want of a Nail" is a proverbial rhyme showing that small actions can result in large consequences.
a good illustration of the "The butterfly effect".
++++++
For want of a nail the shoe was lost.
For want of a shoe the horse was lost.
For want of a horse the rider was lost.
For want of a rider the battle was lost.
For want of a battle the kingdom was lost.
And all for the want of a horseshoe nail.
+++++++

Five stages of grief:
The Kbler-Ross model first introduced by Elisabeth Kbler-Ross in her 1969 book "On Death and Dying",
1. Denial:
       * Example - "I feel fine."; "This can't be happening."'Not to me!"
2. Anger:
       * Example - "Why me? It's not fair!" "NO! NO! How can you accept this!"
3. Bargaining:
       * Example - "Just let me live to see my children graduate."; "I'll do anything, can't you stretch it out? A few more years."
4. Depression:
       * Example - "I'm so sad, why bother with anything?"; "I'm going to die . . . What's the point?"
5. Acceptance:
       * Example - "It's going to be OK."; "I can't fight it, I may as well prepare for it."

Psychological Projection:
In psychology, psychological projection (or projection bias) is a defense mechanism in which
one attributes one's own unacceptable or unwanted thoughts or/and emotions to others.
Projection reduces anxiety by allowing the expression of the unwanted subconscious
impulses/desires without letting the conscious mind recognize them. The theory
was developed by Sigmund Freud and further refined by his daughter Anna Freud,
+++
According to Sigmund Freud, projection is a psychological defense mechanism whereby
one "projects" one's own undesirable thoughts, motivations, desires, and feelings onto someone else.

confirmation bias is a tendency to search for or interpret new information in a way
that confirms one's preconceptions and avoids information and interpretations which
contradict prior beliefs.
++++++
a type of selective thinking  whereby one tends to notice and to look for what confirms
one's beliefs, and to ignore, not look for, or undervalue the relevance of what contradicts one's beliefs.

loaded for bear:
ready and eager to deal with something that is going to be difficult.
e.g. Their team came out onto the field, loaded for bear, but our defense stopped them.

third-party check:
Say Jack has a cheque from Bob, and Jack wants to pay walmart with that cheque...that would be
 a 3rd party check. Essentially it would be a cheque you are using (with the permission of
who ever owns the cheque) to pay someone, so the owner of the cheque would be the 3rd party
 since they are outside of the acutal transaction betwen you and who ever you are paying.
 Hardly anywhere will accept a third party check because of the high risk of fraud.
+++++
If somebody gives you a check, and you turn it over and write "pay to the order of ____" in
order to give it to a third party, that makes it a third party check. An example would be
 using your paycheck to pay for your groceries.

Up or down vote
An up or down vote refers to a direct vote in the U.S. House of Representatives or
 the U.S. Senate on an amendment or bill; it is sometimes referred to as a "clean vote".
 Members simply vote yea or nay on it. Depending upon the rules of order for that particular
 type of amendment or bill, the vote required for passage might be a 2/3 majority, a 3/5 majority,
or a simple majority.

run the table: to keep winning

network protocol stack
TCP/IP is frequently referred to as a "stack." This refers to the layers
 (TCP, IP, and sometimes others) through which all data passes at both client
and server ends of a data exchange.

signing statement
A signing statement is a written pronouncement issued by the President of the
 United States upon the signing of a bill into law.
Used to modify the meaning of laws.

anaphylaxis
Hypersensitivity especially in animals to a substance, such as foreign protein or a
drug, that is caused by exposure to a foreign substance after a preliminary exposure.

John Maynard Keynes:
 "When the facts change, I change my mind - what do you do, sir?"
It is better to be roughly right than precisely wrong.
You can't push on a string.
Successful investing is anticipating the anticipations of others.
The market can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent.
The avoidance of taxes is the only intellectual pursuit that still carries any reward.

of one's own volition through one's own choice

confit:
a generic term for various kinds of food that have been immersed in a substance for both flavor and
preservation. Sealed and stored in a cool place, confit can last for several months.

tickler file:
A tickler file is a collection of date-labeled file folders organized in a way that allows
time-sensitive documents to be filed according to the future date on which each document needs action.
 Documents within the folders of a tickler file can be to-do lists, pending bills, unpaid invoices,
travel tickets, hotel reservations, meeting information, birthday reminders, coupons, claim tickets,
call-back notes, follow-up reminders, maintenance reminders, or any other papers that require
future action. Each day, the folder having the current date is retrieved from the tickler file
so that any documents within it may be acted on. Essentially, a tickler file provides a way
 to send a reminder to oneself in the future: "tickling" one's memory.
+++++++++
A tickler file is system that allows you to send something to yourself in the future for later action.

Tide pools are rocky pools by oceans that are filled with seawater.

off the top of your head:
based on what you remember
if you say something off the top of your head, you say it without thinking about it for very long
 or looking at something that has been written about it.

Unsweetened condensed milk and evaporated milk are the same thing.
+++++
Condensed milk, also known as sweetened condensed milk, is cow's milk from which water
has been removed and to which sugar has been added, yielding a very thick, sweet product
that can last for years without refrigeration if unopened. The two terms, condensed milk
 and sweetened condensed milk, have become synonymous;
++++
Evaporated milk, also known as dehydrated milk, is a shelf-stable canned milk product with
about 60% of the water removed from fresh milk. It differs from condensed milk, which
 contains added sugar. Condensed milk requires less processing since the added sugar inhibits bacterial growth.

endonym:
A name used by a group or category of people to refer to themselves or their language,
 as opposed to a name given to them by other groups.
For example, Deutschen is the endonym of a people known in English as German.

exonym:
is a name for a place that is not used within that place by the local inhabitants
(neither in the official language of the state nor in local languages),
 or a name for a people or language that is not used by the people or language to which
 it refers. The name used by the people or locals themselves is called endonym, autonym, or
self-appellation. For example, Deutschland is an endonym; Germany is an
 English exonym for the same place; and Allemagne is a French exonym.

A patronym or patronymic, is a component of a personal name based on the name of one's
 father, grandfather or an even earlier male ancestor.

sight unseen
without seeing or examining something first.
e.g. He purchased the Longfellow manuscript sight unseen from a collector in Houston.

integer:
the set of numbers consisting of the natural numbers including 0
and the negatives. ( -2, -1 , 0 , 1 , 2 ).
They are numbers that can be written without a fractional or decimal component.

Natural number:
either the set (1,2,3..) (positive integers) or the set (0,1,2,3) (non-negative integers)
also called whole number

Parkinson's law
Work expands to fill the time available.

raison d'etre: reason for existing

argot: a specialized vocabulary

CableCard
CableCard is an interface for digital TV that lets you plug your cable line directly into your TV
set without the need for a set-top box.
CableCard's first function--and arguably its most important--is to prevent people from stealing
 cable TV. Like a set-top box, it stores subscriber information and codes for unlocking and viewing scrambled digital-cable signals.
you can't yet use CableCard for services that require two-way interactivity, such as accessing
your cable company's interactive programming guide or purchasing pay-per-view programs.

analog signal
consists of a continuous waveform

digital signal
consists of a series of rapid transitions in voltage.

chyron:
A piece of equipment that allows video editors to insert text and graphics over the video picture or
within the video frame.
+++
A well-known brand of character generator. The word Chyron is often used generically to mean character generator.
+++
Text graphics which appear at the bottom of a screen used to describe time, place, or name of person
on screen; can also describe the technology

more geared toward the medical community

A "Sophie's Choice" is a tragic choice between two unbearable options.

control:
A standard of comparison for checking or verifying the results of an experiment.
An individual or group used as a standard of comparison in a control experiment.

navel-gazing: Excessive introspection, self-absorption, or concentration on a single issue

Cognitive dissonance is an uncomfortable feeling caused by holding two contradictory ideas simultaneously.

inductive reasoning: inference from the specific to the general
The process by which a conclusion is inferred from multiple observations

deductive reasoning: inference from the general to the specific
The process by which a conclusion is logically inferred from certain premises

inference: the process of deriving logical conclusions from premises
known or assumed to be true.


    * "Do not add new functionality unless you know of some real application that will require it."
    * "If you can get 90% of the desired effect for 10% of the work, use the simpler solution."
    * "If a problem is not completely understood, it is probably best to provide no solution at all."

to that end
For that reason, with that goal, intending to produce that result.
++
We think that the world would be a better place without adverts. To that end, we are going
to remove all of the banners from our website.
++
He was aiming to get into the school swimming team, and to that end he swam every evening.

Due Diligence
Due Diligence is a term used for a number of concepts involving either the performance of an
investigation of a business or person, or the performance of an act with a certain standard
of care. It can be a legal obligation, but the term will more commonly apply to voluntary
investigations. A common example of due diligence in various industries is the process
 through which a potential acquirer evaluates a target company or its assets for acquisition

pareto principle
the Pareto principle (also known as the 80-20 rule,the law of the vital few and the principle of factor sparsity)
 states that, for many events, roughly 80% of the effects come from 20% of the causes.

cam-out
To cam out (or cam-out) is a process by which a screwdriver slips out of the head of a screw
being driven once the torque required to turn the screw exceeds a certain amount.

burn down chart
A burn down chart is graphical representation of work left to do vs. time. The outstanding work
(or backlog) is often on the vertical axis, with time along the horizontal. It is useful for
predicting when all of the work will be completed.

lavalier microphone
lapel microphone:
is a small electret or dynamic microphone used for television, theatre, and public speaking
applications, in order to allow hands-free operation

Wi-Fi: an industry standard for a wireless networking technology that connects computers
to LAN. (IEEE 802.11)
	802.11a, b, g, n
Bluetooth: an industry standard for a wireless networking technology that connects
phones, PDAs, and computers over short distance. (IEEE 802.15.1.)
WiMax: an industry standard for a long-range wireless network technology that connects
computers to a WAN (IEEE 802.16)

VPN:
utilizes public telecommunications networks to conduct private data communications. Most
VPN implementations use the Internet as the public infrastructure and a variety of specialized
protocols to support private communications through the Internet.
+++
VPN follows a client and server approach. VPN clients authenticate users, encrypt data,
 and otherwise manage sessions with VPN servers utilizing a technique called tunneling.
++++
a private network that uses a public network to connect remote site/users together.
----
provides secure data transfer over the public Internet,

leased line
A leased line connects two locations for private voice and/or data telecommunication service.
Not a dedicated cable, a leased line is actually a reserved circuit between two points. Leased
lines can span short or long distances. They maintain a single open circuit at all times,
as opposed to traditional telephone services that reuse the same lines for many different
conversations through a process called "switching."
+++
Leased lines most commonly are rented by businesses to connect branch offices, because these
lines guarantee bandwidth for network traffic. So-called T1 leased lines are common and
offer the same data rate as symmetric DSL (1.544 Mbps).

intranet
Intranet is the generic term for a collection of private computer networks within an organization.

extranet
An extranet is a computer network that allows controlled access from the outside for specific
business or educational purposes. Extranets are extensions to, or segments of, private intranet
networks that have been built in many corporations for information sharing and ecommerce.
+++
Most extranets use the Internet as the entry point for outsiders, a firewall configuration
 to limit access, and a secure protocol for authenticating users.

WAN
The world's most popular WAN is the Internet. Some segments of the Internet, like VPN-based extranets,
 are also WANs in themselves. Finally, many WANs are corporate or research networks that utilize leased lines.

brinksmanship/brinkmanship
 the art or practice of pushing a dangerous situation or confrontation to the limit of safety
 especially to force a desired outcome
+++
The practice, especially in international politics, of seeking advantage by creating the
impression that one is willing and able to push a highly dangerous situation to the limit rather than concede.

gamesmanship
The art or practice of using tactical maneuvers to further one's aims or better one's position
+++
  The use in a sport or game of aggressive, often dubious tactics, such as psychological
intimidation or disruption of concentration, to gain an advantage over one's opponent.

sui generis: unique

Collateral adjective
refers to an adjective with the same meaning as a noun but derived from a different root.
For example, lunar serves as an adjective to describe attributes of the Moon; moon
comes from the Old English mona and lunar from the Latin luna.

spine
The spine is a column of 33 bones, called vertebrae, that stack on top of each other,
extending from the base of the skull to the tailbone. Most vertebrae are separated by discs
that acts as shock absorbers for the spine.
+++
The spinal column is the main structure to support movement. The structures of the spine also
surround and protect the spinal cord, which is a nerve that stretches from the base of the
 brain to the lower back. The spinal cord allows complex communication between the brain and the body.
+++

herniated disc
when a disc is damaged, it may bulge or break open. This is called a herniated disc.
It may also be called a slipped or ruptured disc.

Spinal nerve roots branch out from each side of the spinal cord and then join to form
 the spinal nerves, which pass through openings between the spinal bones (vertebrae) and
then form branches that extend throughout the body.
Each spinal nerve is attached to the spinal cord by 2 nerve roots.

dumpster: emptied into garbage truck

dump truck
A dump truck or production truck is a truck used for transporting loose material
(such as sand, gravel, or dirt) for construction. A typical dump truck is equipped
 with a hydraulically operated open-box bed hinged at the rear, the front of which
can be lifted up to allow the contents to be deposited on the ground behind the truck at the site of delivery

bulldozer:
A bulldozer is a crawler (caterpillar tracked tractor), equipped with a substantial metal plate
(known as a blade), used to push large quantities of soil, sand, rubble, etc., during construction work.
the term refers only to a tractor (usually tracked) fitted with a dozer blade.

loader
A loader (also known as: bucket loader, front loader, front end loader, payloader, scoop loader,
shovel, skip loader, and/or wheel loader) is a type of tractor, usually wheeled, sometimes on tracks,
 that has a front mounted square wide bucket connected to the end of two booms (arms) to scoop up
loose material from the ground, such as dirt, sand or gravel, and move it from one place to another
without pushing the material across the ground. A loader is commonly used to move a stockpiled
material from ground level and deposit it into an awaiting dump truck or into a open trench excavation.

excavator
An excavator (also called a digger) is an engineering vehicle consisting of an articulated arm
(boom, stick), bucket and cab mounted on a pivot (a rotating platform, like a Lazy Susan) atop
an undercarriage with tracks or wheels.

tractor
A tractor is a vehicle specifically designed to deliver a high tractive effort at slow speeds,
 for the purposes of hauling a trailer or machinery used in agriculture or construction.
 Most commonly, the term is used to describe the distinctive farm vehicle: agricultural
 implements may be towed behind or mounted on the tractor, and the tractor may also provide
a source of power if the implement is mechanised

crawler
A tracked vehicle (also called: track-type tractor, tractor crawler, or track-laying vehicle)
 is a vehicle that runs on tracks instead of wheels.

trailer
A Trailer is generally an unpowered vehicle pulled by a powered vehicle.

axle
An axle is a central shaft for a rotating wheel or gear.

articulated: consisting of segments held together by joints

use something as a springboard to become ...
use something as a springboard for ...

too far in the future

SKU (stock keeping unit): a unique identifier for each distinct product or service
that can be purchased.

deduction vs induction
The logical processes known as deduction and induction work in opposite ways. In deduction general
 principles are applied to specific instances. Thus, using a mathematical formula to figure the
 volume of air that can be contained in a gymnasium is applying deduction. Similarly, applying
a law of physics to predict the outcome of an experiment is reasoning by deduction. By contrast,
induction makes generalizations based on a number of specific instances. The observation of hundreds
of examples in which a certain chemical kills plants might prompt the inductive conclusion that the
 chemical is toxic to all plants. Inductive generalizations are often revised as more examples are
 studied and more facts are known. If certain plants that have not been tested turn out to be
unaffected by the chemical, the conclusion about the chemical's toxicity must be revised or
 restricted. In this way, an inductive generalization is much like a hypothesis.

90th percentile
is that position in a data set which has 90% of data points below it, and 10% above it.

heuristic
is an adjective for experience-based techniques that help in problem solving, learning and discovery.
A heuristic method is particularly used to rapidly come to a solution that is hoped to be close to
the best possible answer, or 'optimal solution'. Heuristics are "rules of thumb", educated guesses,
 intuitive judgments or simply common sense.

botnet
Botnets are networks of Windows PC, which have been taken over by malware programs.

(and) no one will be (any) the wiser;
and no one is the wiser;
nobody (being) the wiser;
without anyone being the wiser
with nobody being the wiser
--> No one will ever know

heuristics:
an experience-based approach to problem solving
++
pertains to the process of gaining knowledge or some desired result by intelligent guesswork rather than
by following some preestablished formula. (Heuristic can be contrasted with algorithm ic.)
The term seems to have two usages:
1) Describing an approach to learning by trying without necessarily having an organized hypothesis
 or way of proving that the results proved or disproved the hypothesis. That is, "seat-of-the-pants"
 or "trial-by-error" learning.
2) Pertaining to the use of the general knowledge gained by experience, sometimes expressed as
"using a rule-of-thumb." (However, heuristic knowledge can be applied to complex as well as simple
 everyday problems. Human chess players use a heuristic
+++
heuristic algorithm
an algorithm that can produce an acceptable result in many scenarios, but for which
there is no formal proof of its correctness.

class invariant
Class invariants are methods which check the validity of an object's state (its data).
The idea is to define validation methods for fields, and to perform these validations whenever the fields change.
--> a condition that every object of the class must satisfy at all times.

for want of a better word: for lack of a better word

dependency injection
a style of object configuration in which an object is configured by an external entity.

They would rather you didn't use "Google" as a verb

bearing
is a device to allow constrained relative motion between two or more parts, typically rotation or linear movement.

bushing
bushing is a type of bearing. It is a cylindrical lining designed to reduce friction and wear inside a hole,
 or constrict and restrain motion of mechanical parts

contretemp
An unforeseen event that disrupts the normal course of things; an inopportune occurrence.
a small disagreement that is rather embarrassing
an awkward clash

cursor
a db structure for traversing the records in a result set.
used for processing individual rows returned by the db

braise, broil, grill, roast
When you cook meat on a pre-heated, dry pan without oil it is called pan-grilling.
 Broiling and grilling are the same: cooking food directly under or over a heat source in the oven
under the broiling element or on the grill.  Braising is to brown food in oil first, then cover
and cook in a small amount of liquid at a low temperature for a long time either on top of the
stove or in the oven.  Roasting is to cook a food in an open pan in the oven with no added liquid.
+++
Broiling is cooking with high heat from above. Grilling is cooking with high heat from below.
Roasting is cooking with low heat all around.

saturated
containing all the solute that can normally be dissolved at a given temperature
containing the equilibrium amount of gaseous material at a given temperature and pressure

solute
A substance dissolved in another substance

black ice
(or glare ice) is ice frozen without many air bubbles trapped inside, making it highly transparent.
 This type of ice appears in the color of the material beneath it, often wet asphalt or a darkened pond
++
Black ice is sometimes called "glare ice" or "clear ice," typically refers to a thin coating of
glazed ice on a surface, often a roadway. While not truly black, it is transparent, allowing the
usually-black asphalt/macadam roadway to be seen through it

java.util.List interface is a subtype of the java.util.Collection interface.

list implementation: ArrayList, LinkedList, Vector, Stack

java.util.Set interface

set implemention: EnumSet, HashSet, LinkedHashSet, TreeSet
HashSet is backed by a HashMap. It makes no guarantees about the sequence of the elements when you iterate them
LinkedHashSet differs from HashSet by guaranteeing that the order of the elements during iteration is
the same as the order they were inserted into the LinkedHashSet. Reinserting an element that is already in
the LinkedHashSet does not change this order.
TreeSet also guarantees the order of the elements when iterated, but the order is the sorting order of the elements.

diff btw HashSet and Set: Hashset allows null

java.util.SortedSet interface is a subtype of the java.util.Set. actual implementation: java.util.TreeSet

The order of the sorting is either the natural sorting order of the elements (if they implement
java.lang.Comparable), or the order determined by a Comparator that you can give to the SortedSet

java.util.Map interface: a dictionary
	implementation: HashMap, HashTable, EnumMap, IdentityHashMap, LinkedHashMap,
	Properties, TreeMap, WeakHashMap
	note: key must be an object, no primitive type
	Note: Properties is a subclass of HashTable, each key and value is a string
	Hashtable is one of the original collection classes in Java. HashMap is
	 part of the new Collections Framework, added with Java 2, v1.2.
	Hashtable is synchronized, HashMap is not.
	iterator in the HashMap is fail-safe while the enumerator for the Hashtable isn't.
	HashMap permits null values in it, while Hashtable doesn't. conclusion: use HashMap

Properties: a subclass of HashTable: Properties.load(inputStream): load properties file
properties.keySet() : return a set of keys
properties.values() : return a collection of values
properties.entrySet() : return a collection of Map.Entry, which a key-value pair (like Association in Smalltalk)

HashMap: no sequencing
TreeMap: order (iteration order is the sort order of keys/values)

// key iterator
Iterator iterator = mapA.keySet().iterator();

// value iterator
Iterator iterator = mapA.values();

Iterator iterator = mapA.keySet().iterator();
while(iterator.hasNext(){
  Object key   = iterator.next();
  Object value = mapA.get(key);
}

//access via new for-loop
for(Object key : mapA.keySet()) {
    Object value = mapA.get(key);
}

NavigableMap and Navigableset

java.util.Queue interface (inserted at the end of the queue, and elements removed from the beginning of the queue)
	implementation: LinkedList, PriorityQueue

java.util.Deque  (a queue where you can insert and remove elements from both ends of the queue) Double Ended Queue"
	ArrayDeque, LinkedList

implement hashCode() and equals()

sorting: sort List collections using the java.util.Collections.sort()
	can sort List and LinkedList
++
List list = new ArrayList();

//add elements to the list

Collections.sort(list);

For objects to have a natural order they must implement the interface java.lang.Comparable

public interface Comparable<T> {
  int compareTo(T o);
}

 The compareTo() method should compare this object to another object, return an int value. Here are the rules for that int value:

    * Return a negative value if this object is smaller than the other object
    * Return 0 (zero) if this object is equal to the other object.
    * Return a positive value if this object is larger than the other object

Comparator (non-natural order)
List list = new ArrayList();

//add elements to the list

Comparator comparator = new SomeComparator();

Collections.sort(list, comparator);

or implements the Comparator interface
	2 methods: compare(), equals()

synchronization wrapper: Map m = Collections.synchronizedMap(new HashMap(...));
The iterators returned by all of this class's "collection view methods" are fail-fast: if the
map is structurally modified at any time after the iterator is created, in any way except
through the iterator's own remove or add methods, the iterator will throw a ConcurrentModificationException.

Enumeration is legacy, not in the new Collection framework
	contains 2 methods namely hasMoreElements() & nextElement().
Iterator is new , in the collection framework
	three methods namely hasNext(), next(),remove().
diff: Iterator: can remove elements during iteration

Cloneable interface:
A class implements the Cloneable interface to indicate to the Object.clone() method that it
is legal for that method to make a field-for-field copy of instances of that class.
Invoking Object's clone method on an instance that does not implement the Cloneable interface
 results in the exception CloneNotSupportedException being thrown.
By convention, classes that implement this interface should override Object.clone (which is protected)
 with a public method. See Object.clone() for details on overriding this method.

ByteArrayInputStream: read data from byte arrays as streams
DataInputStream: enables you to read Java primitives from InputStream's instead of only bytes
PrintStream: enables you to write formatted data to an underlying OutputStream.
PrintWriter: enables you to write formatted data to an underlying Writer
StringWriter: enables you to obtain the characters written to a Writer  as a String: uses StringBuffer
So StringWriter is basically an Adapter that adapts a StringBuffer to the Writer interface.

stream: continuous flow of data you can read from or write to. no concept of index.

exception wrapping
wrapping is when you catch an exception, wrap it in a different exception and throw that exception.
to prevent the code further up the call stack from having to know about every possible exception in the system.
--> do not want to end up with top level methods that declare many different exceptions.
--> you may not want your top level components to know anything about the bottom level components,
++
Exception wrapping may result in very long stack traces consisting of one stack trace for each exception
in the wrapping hierarchy.
The messages of the exceptions are spread out over the stack traces.

another approach: exception enrichment : add additional info to an exception

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
TIBCO

max job: specifies the number of process instances that are kept in memmory. Once this limit is
reached newly created process instances (subject to flow limit) are paged out to disk.0 specifies no
limit and is the default.

flow limit: specifies the maximum number of running process instances that are spawned before
 the process starter is suspended ie it enters a FLOW_CONTROLLED state and does not accept new events.
 This can be used to control the number of process instances running simultaneously and when the protocol
 generating the event can store the event till it is received, like email servers, JMS, RV etc. 0 specifies
 no limit and is the default.
+++++++++++++++++++

interview question:

"I want to earn a salary that is commensurate with the contributions I can make. I am confident
I can make a substantial contribution at your firm. What does your firm plan to pay for this position?"

"I prefer to discuss the compensation package after you've decided that I'm the best
candidate and we can sit down and negotiate the package."

"'Based on our interview, do you have any concerns about my ability to do the job?'

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

leave it the way you found it

ISO image
An ISO image is an archive file (also known as a disc image) of an optical disc in a format defined by
the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). This format is supported by many software vendors.
 ISO image files typically have a file extension of .iso. The name ISO is taken from the ISO 9660 file
system used with CD-ROM media, but an ISO image can also contain a UDF file system since UDF
 is backward-compatible with ISO 9660.
+++
In the context of files and programs, an "image", whether an ISO, floppy, or other media image,
 is simply a file that can be used as a virtually identical copy of the original media. This file not
only contains individual data files; it also contains track and sector information and arranges all
this information in a file system, just like disk media. Image files, unlike normal files, are
usually not opened; rather, they are mounted.
An ISO image is simply a CD-ROM or DVD image saved in ISO-9660 format.
++
ISO images are mainly used as source files from which to create media.
After you download the image, you can use CD-burning software to recreate the physical CD-ROM/DVD install media.

+++++
Know what you do Know
Know what you need to Know
Know what you don't know
Know where you want to go

dependency injection
a style of object configuration where an object is configured by an external entity,
as opposed to having the object configure itself.
passing in an object to initialize an inst var
DI container: know what to instantiate and inject into components
3 types: (1) interface injection (2) setter injection (3) constructor injection
--> instead of an object initializing other objects internally, it accepts those objects
as parameters that are supplied by an external entity (usually an app container).
--> an object gets its dependencies given to it, as opposed to having to construct them itself.
--> DI is a form of IoC
--
Inversion of Control (IoC) : the Hollywood principle: don't call us, we'll call you
there is another piece of code that has the control and will call your code, rather than
your code calling it.
--
non-IoC: your code is in control
IoC: your code is not in control

do a number on
to damage or ruin something; to destroy something
To defeat, abuse, or humiliate in a calculated and thorough way.

OSGi
OSGi (Open Services Gateway Initiative) is an industry plan for a standard way to connect devices
 such as home appliances and security systems to the Internet. With such a standard, home users
 could, for example, install a security system and be able to change from one monitoring service
to another without having to install a new system of wires and devices. The "service gateway"
would be an application server in a computer that was a gateway between the Internet and a home
 or small business's network of device. The OSGi plans to specify the application program interface (API)
for programmers to use to allow communication and control between service providers and the devices
 within the home or small business network. OSGi's API will be built on the Java programming language.

OSGi technology is the dynamic module system for Java

An OSGi Framework is an open, modular and sizeable "Service Delivery Plattform".

OSGi emerged out of work to connect home appliances and security systems to the Internet.
It has since evolved into a more generic SOA componentized model for connecting a variety of services.
initially: a set of standards for a Java-based service framework that could be remotely managed.

+++
java classloader

The main role of the class loader is to define a class scope  where the class is visible
and where it isn't. This scoping allows for classes with the same name to exist as long as
 they are loaded in different classloaders. It also allows loading a newer version of the
class in a different classloader.

+++++++
Java generics: C++ templates, parameterized type (Gang of four)

a class/interface whose declaration has one or more type parameters is a generic class/interface.

anObject.getClass() same as Object.class
Object.class called class literal
Class.forName(aString): Returns the Class object

+++++

embedded SQL:
has a precompilation step, where the embedded SQL code is converted to the host language code(C/C++).

god forbid (heaven forbid)
I hope it does not happen
e.g., If, God forbid, anything should happen to him I might not want to stay here.
e.g., Heaven forbid (that)  his parents should ever find out.
also used to suggest that someone would never do something
e.g., God forbid they should help someone who isn't paying them for help.

A phrasal verb is a combination of a verb and a preposition, a verb and an adverb,
 or a verb with both an adverb and a preposition,

be full of beans
to have a lot of energy and enthusiasm

femtocell (Access Point Base Station)
A femtocell is a wireless access point that improves cellular reception inside a home or office building.
The device, which resembles a wireless router, essentially acts as a VoIP repeater. When connected
to Internet broadband, it broadcasts the connection using radio waves.
It connects to the service provider's network via broadband (such as DSL or cable);
Is connected to the internet via a broadband connection
A cell phone call initiated in a home equipped with femtocall would start at the handset,
be sent to the femtocell, go from the femtocell to the Internet through the broadband connection,
 and end up back on the cellular network

Java: all arguments are passed by value
Object variables in Java are all references.
A reference is an abstract identifier for an object.
A handle is a pointer to a pointer.

java:
variable length argument list (introduced in Java 5)
syntax: public static double average( double... numbers )

be the cat's whiskers
to be better than everyone else: I thought I was the cat's whiskers in my new dress.

ALM: application lifecycle management
Application lifecycle management (ALM) is the marriage of business management to software
 engineering made possible by tools that facilitate and integrate
 requirements management, architecture, coding, testing, tracking, and release management.
SCM: software configuration management
is the task of tracking and controlling changes in the software. Configuration management
practices include revision control and the establishment of baselines.

SCCM: software configuration and change management (same as SCM?)

agile: unit testing, daily standup, iteration planning, shorter release cycles
(planning from user stories)

Java EE 6:
more modular Java EE implementation through the definition of profiles.
This is to allow vendors to create smaller subsets of their entire Java EE stack for specific uses,
Currently Java EE 6 specifies two profiles: the web profile (Servlets, JSP, and JSF only),
and the Java EE enterprise profile (the entire stack).

stable sorting algorithms maintain the relative order of records with equal keys
equal elements will not be reordered as a result of the sort.

canonical form: standard way of presenting that object.
an authoritative form. the simplest form
canonicalization (c14n) also called standardization/normalization
is a process for converting data that has more than one possible representation into a "standard", "normal", or canonical form

an in-place algorithm (or in Latin in situ) is an algorithm which transforms input using a data
structure with a small, constant amount of extra storage space. The input is usually
overwritten by the output as the algorithm executes. An algorithm which is not in-place is
sometimes called not-in-place or out-of-place.
An algorithm is sometimes informally called in-place as long as it overwrites its input with its output.

code page
is another name for character encoding.
It consists of a table of values that describes the character set for a particular language.

ALM (application lifecycle management)
the administration of an application from inception to de-commissioning.
it includes requirements management, and development.
3 distinct areas: governance, development, and operations

public-key cryptography
1. To send me an encrypted message, you use my public key to encrypt the message.
2. then I use my private key to decrypt the message

digital signature
1. I have a message/document to send
2. apply a hashing function to the document to create a message digest (aka hash, checksum)
3. to create a digital signature, I sign(encrypt) the message digest with my private key
4. I then send the document and the digital signature (encrypted message digest)
recipient to authenticate:
1. apply the same hashing function to the document.
2. decrypt the encrypted message digest (digital signature) using my public key.
3. compare the output of 1 against the output of 2
If not equal -> (1) someone is impersonating me (2) the document has been altered
(3) error during transmission

Certificates are digital documents attesting to the binding of a public key to an individual or other entity.
In their simplest form, certificates contain a public key and a name
certificate: a signed public key

hashing: the transformation of a string of characters into a fixed-length string
in smalltalk: the transformation of an object into an integer, which is used as an
index into a collection.
A hash function H is a transformation that takes an input m and returns a fixed-size string,
which is called the hash value h  (that is, h = H(m)).
A hash function H is said to be one-way if it is hard to invert
The hash value represents concisely the longer message or document from which it was computed;
 this value is called the message digest. One can think of a message digest as
 a "digital fingerprint" of the larger document.
+++
collision resistance: hard to find two inputs that hash to the same output

birthday attack that relies on the fact that it is easier to find two messages that hash
to the same value than to find a message that hashes to a particular value.
birthday problem in probability theory
for a group of 23 or more people the probability that two or more people share the same birthday
 is better than 50%. (in a group of at least 23 randomly chosen people)
For 57 or more people, the probability is more than 99%

necessiate and obviate
The  breakdown  of  the  car  necessitated  a  change  in  our  plans.
 The  new  wage  demand  will  necessitate  a  price  increase.
to  obviate  the  risk  of  serious  injury.

irrational number
a number that cannot be written as a repeating decimal or a finite decimal or a fraction

XHTML
almost identical to HTML 4.01
a stricter and cleaner version of HTML
HTML defined as an XML application

use checked exceptions for recoverable conditions
use runtime exceptions for programming errors
If a client can reasonably be expected to recover from an exception, make it a checked exception.
If a client cannot do anything to recover from the exception, make it an unchecked exception.

JNI (Java native interface)
an interface that allows java programs to call and to be called by native code (in C/C=+)

Mind your Ps and Qs
"mind your manners", "mind your language", "be on your best behaviour"

Were you born in a barn?
If someone asks you this, it means that you forgot to close the door when you came in
meaning: why have you left the door open?
Addressed to one who leaves a door open

groak
To stare silently at someone while they are eating, in the hopes that they will give you some of their food

French door, also called a French window, is a door that has multiple windows
("lights") set into it for the full length of the door.

++++++++++++++++++++++++
servlet/JSP and EJB
ervlets/JSPs and EJB are complementary, not competing technologies: Servlets provide support for writing web based applications whereas EJBs provide support for writing transactional objects.
JSP or XML/XSL technologies provide support for the front end (UI, client) code, where EJB provides
 support for the back end (database connection pooling, declaritive transactions, declaritive security, standardized parameterization...)

 EJB model mandates  a separation between display and business logic.

Some of the hings that servlets and JSPs can do that EJBs cannot are:

    * Respond to http/https protocol requests.
    * (With JSP) provide an easy way to format HTML output.
    * Easily associate a web user with session information

Some of the things that EJBs enable you to do that servlets/JSPs do not are:

    * Declaritively manage transactions. In EJB, you merely specify whether a bean's methods require,
	disallow, or can be used in the context of a transaction. The EJB container will manage your
	transaction boundaries appropriately. In a purely servlet architecture, you'll have to write code
	 to manage the transaction, which is difficult if a logical transaction must access multiple datasources.
    * Declaritively manage security. The EJB model allows you to indicate a security role that
	the user must be assigned to in order to invoke a method on a bean. In Servlets/JSPs you must
	 write code to do this. Note, however that the security model in EJB is sufficient for
	only 90% to 95% of application code - there are always security scenarios that require reference
	 to values of an entity, etc.

EJB provides:
resource management, transaction management, security, scalability, threading issues, pooling,

Granularity is the extent to which a system is broken down into small parts
It is the extent to which a larger entity is subdivided.
For example, a yard broken into inches has finer granularity than a yard broken into feet

Coarse-grained systems consist of fewer, larger components than fine-grained  systems;
a coarse-grained description of a system regards large subcomponents while a fine-grained
description regards smaller components of which the larger ones are composed.
The granularity of data refers to the fineness with which data fields are sub-divided.
For example, a postal address can be recorded, with low granularity, as a single field:
or with high granularity, as multiple fields:
Higher granularity has overheads for data input and storage.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

BitTorrent
a decentralized peer-to-peer file sharing protocol for transferring files.
when transferring, bits and pieces of the file are uploaded at the same time
from different peers to improve your overall speed

strategic planning
designed to answer two questions: (1) what does the company want to be in
the future? (2) how does the company get to that position in the future?

++++++++++++++
XML elements vs attributes
one way of thinking about XML elements and attributes uses the concept of visibility.
if it is displayed to the end user, then it should be an element.
if the info guides XML processing but is never seen by a user, then it may be better to model it as an attribute.

TV (interlacing)
interlace is a technique of improving the picture quality of a video signal without consuming extra bandwidth.
TV and video pictures are made up of a number of images (frames) that are sequentially displayed
 on your screen to give the illusion of movement. The rate at which the frames are displayed
is fixed at 25 frames-per second (fps) in the PAL system, and 30 fps in the NTSC system.
In order to send these pictures over the air, or along a cable, each frame is split up into a number of horizontal strips (lines),
Each line is transmitted separately to your TV tube where they are 'painted' (scanned) in sequence on the viewing screen, to recreate the original frame images.
Each frame is divided into two parts (fields) by taking even numbered lines as one field, and odd
numbered lines as the other. These two fields are then transmitted in sequence (odd, then even),
instead of the original frame. The rate at which these fields are produced on our TV tube is now twice the frame rate, which reduces the perceptible flicker substantially.
The reason why 50 fields/sec (60 NTSC) is used is to minimise the visual disturbance caused by mains-power interference which would show as a wobble in the picture.
The PAL system comprises 625 lines, of which 574 are active. NTSC has 525 lines, of which 485 are active.
NTSC: 60 fields every second, resulting in 30 frames per second


Microsoft DirectX is a collection of application programming interfaces (APIs) for handling tasks
 related to multimedia, especially game programming and video, on Microsoft  platforms.
++
OpenGL (Open Graphics Library) is a standard specification defining a cross-language, cross-platform API for writing applications that produce 2D and 3D computer graphics.

Dedicated Graphics generally come in 3 different types of add in cards: PCI  | AGP | PCI-Express

raster graphics (use bitmaps): represent an image as an array of pixels.
vector graphics: represent an image as mathematical formulae
the use of geometrical primitives such as points, lines, curves, and shapes or polygon(s), which
are all based on mathematical equations, to represent images in computer graphics.
a raster graphics image or bitmap is a data structure representing a generally rectangular  grid of pixels,
Raster graphics: graphical techniques using arrays of pixel values

tethering:
the use of your cell phone -- or other Internet-enabled mobile device -- as a modem for another device,
usually a notebook or PDA.
The connection is made either with a cable (USB or serial) or wirelessly through bluetooth

bring something to bear
to use influence, arguments, or threats in order to change a situation (often + on )
Pressure should be brought to bear on the illegal regime and support given to the resistance.

MHTML: MIME HTML
is a web page archive format used to combine  resources that are typically represented by external
links (such as images, Flash animations, Java applets, audio files) together with HTML code into
 a single file. The content of an MHTML file is encoded as if it were an HTML e-mail message,
 using the MIME type multipart/related. The first part of the file is normally encoded HTML; subsequent parts are additional resources identified by their original URLs and encoded in base64. This format is sometimes referred to as MHT,

MIME
is an Internet standard that extends the format of e-mail to support:

    * Text in character sets other than ASCII
    * Non-text attachments
    * Message bodies with multiple parts
    * Header information in non-ASCII character sets
has grown beyond describing the content of e-mail to describing content type in general, including for the web
is an Internet Standard that allows email systems to interpret complex data

MIME type (internet media type): a two-part identifier for file formats

Java heap: the area of memory used by the JVM (and specifically HotSpot) for dynamic memory allocation.
young generation (eden), tenured, perm
+++
    * The Young generation stores short-lived objects that are created and immediately garbage collected.
    * Objects that persist longer are moved to the Old generation (also called the Tenured generation).
    * The Permanent generation (or permgen) is used for class definitions and associated metadata.

SOA security
1. point-to-point: security inside web services
2. intercepting agent: security inside j2ee container
3. XML gateway/SOA governance gateway/service proxy:

JSON: JavaScript Object Notation
a lightweight data-interchange format.
designed for human-readable data interchange
The JSON format is often used for serializing  and transmitting structured data over a network connection. It is primarily used to transmit data between a server and web application, serving as an alternative to XML.

A CLSID is a globally unique identifier that identifies a COM class object.
e.g.
HKEY_CLASSES_ROOT\CLSID\{2F25CF20-C569-11D1-B94C-00608CB45480}
HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Classes\CLSID\{2F25CF20-C569-11D1-B94C-00608CB45480}

ProgID (short for PROGrammatic IDentifier) is a COM term, which is basically a string
 like "msxml2.domdocument" to represent an underlying CLSID which is
something like {F9043C85-F6F2-101A-A3C9-08002B2F49FB}.

Character encodings control how tools translate raw bytes into text.

+++++++++
oracle execution plan

Whenever an SQL statement is executed, Oracle (CBO: cost based optimizer) designs an execution plan for it.
This execution plan is basically a step by step instruction for how the statement must be executed. That is,
 the order in which tables are read, if indexes are used, which join methods are used to join tables and so on.

usability: the extent to which a product can be used by specified users to achieve specified
goals with effectiveness.
accessibility: the extent to which a product can be used by people with disabilities.

bookmarklet
a tiny program (a JavaScript application) contained in a bookmark (the URL is a "javascript:" URL)
which can be saved and used the same way you use normal bookmarks.

application state is the info necessary to understand the context of an interfaction

tunneling
when one network protocol (the delivery protocol) encapsulates a different payload protocol.
provide a secure path through an untrusted network.
+++
also known as "port forwarding," is the transmission of data intended for use only within a private,
usually corporate network through a public network in such a way that the routing nodes in the public
network are unaware that the transmission is part of a private network. Tunneling is generally done by
 encapsulating the private network data and protocol information within the public network transmission
units so that the private network protocol information appears to the public network as data. Tunneling
allows the use of the Internet, which is a public network, to convey data on behalf of a private network.

message semantics:
synchronous/asynchronous, request/reply, transactional, publish/subscribe and guaranteed delivery.
 The choice of protocol should depend on messaging requirements, for example a common requirement
is point-to-point versus one-to-many, which drives the request/reply or publish/subscribe decision.
 Another example would be a fast message producer paired with a slow message consumer, which is easily
 implemented with a message queue.

business intelligence
(BI) systems take vast quantities of data and put it into visually useful forms (such as graphs and charts)
for sophisticated analysis of business trends.
++
Business Intelligence (BI) refers to computer-based techniques used in spotting, digging-out, and
analyzing business data, such as sales revenue by products and/or departments or associated costs and incomes

codec: encodes a signal for transmission and storage, decodes it for playback.
converts an analog signal into a digital siginal for transmission and storage.
converts a digital signal back to an analog signal for playback.

Secure Shell or SSH is a network protocol that allows data to be exchanged using a secure channel
between two networked devices.

in the scheme of things:
in a general view of the situation
e.g., A two-week delay will not matter in the overall scheme of things.

stovepipe system is a legacy system  that is an assemblage of inter-related elements that are
so tightly bound together that the individual elements cannot be differentiated, upgraded or refactored.
The stovepipe system must be maintained until it can be entirely replaced by a new system.

domain specific language
a computer language targeted to a particular kind of problem.
Internal DSL: ways of using a host language to give the host language the feel of a particular language
External DSLs have their own custom syntax and you write a full parser to process them

Sisyphean: like Sisyphus (punished to roll a stone uphill over and over again)
endless and toilsome, useless, etc.: a Sisyphean task

cache:
a component that improves performance by transparently storing data such that future requests for
that data can be served faster.

thrashing: a condition where the computer spends most of the time transferring pages
between disk and physical memory and little time doing actual work.

WPF:
is a graphical subsystem for rendering user interfaces in Windows-based applications.
WPF, previously known as "Avalon", was initially released as part of .NET Framework 3.0.
 Rather than relying on the older GDI subsystem, WPF utilizes DirectX. WPF attempts to provide
a consistent programming model for building applications and provides a clear separation between the user interface and the business logic.
WPF employs XAML, a derivative of XML, to define and link various UI elements

Windows Forms
is the name given to the graphical application programming interface (API) included as a
part of Microsoft's .NET Framework, providing access to the native Microsoft Windows interface
elements by wrapping the existing Windows API in managed code.

XAML
Extensible Application Markup Language . is a declarative XML-based language created by Microsoft
 which is used to initialize structured values and objects.

domain-driven design
an approach to developing software for complex needs by deeply connecting the implementation to an evolving model of the core business concepts.
The premise of domain-driven design is the following:

    * Placing the project's primary focus on the core domain and domain logic
    * Basing complex designs on a model
    * Initiating a creative collaboration between technical and domain experts to iteratively cut ever closer to the conceptual heart of the problem.
premise of DDD:
    * For most software projects, the primary focus should be on the domain and domain logic; and
    * Complex domain designs should be based on a model.
+++++
Entity: An object that is not defined by its attributes, but rather by a thread of continuity and its identity.
Value Object: An object that contains attributes but has no conceptual identity. They should be treated as immutable.
Aggregate: A collection of objects that are bound together by a root entity, otherwise known as an aggregate root.
++++++
we want to build a domain model that captures the problem domain of the system being built, and we are going to express that understanding in code / software artifacts.

too far off in the future

mixin
a class that provides a certain functionality to be inherited by a subclass, while not meant for
instantiation  (the generation of objects of that class). Inheriting from a mixin is not a form of
 specialization but is rather a means of collecting functionality.
++ A mixin can also be viewed as an interface with implemented methods.
--> an interface with an implementation

Action-based (aka Push-based MVC) frameworks: model pushes data to view
	eg. Struts, Django, Ruby on Rails and Spring MVC
Component-based (aka Pull-based MVC) frameworks: view pulls data from model/controller
	eg. Struts2, Lift, Tapestry, JBoss Seam, Wicket and Stripes

inversion of control (dependency injection)
in the Java EE world, there is the mechanism called the Java Naming and Directory Interfaces (JNDI)
used to look up internal or external services.
These could be an enterprise JavaBean, a database, or a message queue. Instead of the developer doing
all those extra steps to look up internal or external services, the framework does the work and hands
 to the component or object a reference to that external service. In other words, the service look-up
responsibility is delegated to the framework.

OOP: a paradigm where real world problems are decomposed into objects that abstract behavior
and data in a single unit.

AOP is a new technology for separating crosscutting concerns into single units called aspects.
join point: an execution point in a program
point cut: specifies criteria that match join points. a way to specify joint points
advice: a means to specify code to be run at joint points
--> let you add behavior to your POJO without modifying your code
---
1. Aspect: An aspect is a class that implements enterprise application concerns that cut across multiple classes, such as transaction management. Aspects can be a normal class configured through Spring XML configuration or we can use Spring AspectJ integration to define a class as Aspect using @Aspect annotation.
2. Join Point: A join point is the specific point in the application such as method execution, exception handling, changing object variable values etc. In Spring AOP a join points is always the execution of a method.
3. Advice: Advices are actions taken for a particular join point. In terms of programming, they are methods that gets executed when a certain join point with matching pointcut is reached in the application. You can think of Advices as Struts2 interceptors or Servlet Filters.
 --> define the what and when of an aspect
4. Pointcut: Pointcut are expressions that is matched with join points to determine whether advice needs to be executed or not. Pointcut uses different kinds of expressions that are matched with the join points and Spring framework uses the AspectJ pointcut expression language.Target Object: They are the object on which advices are applied. Spring AOP is implemented using runtime proxies so this object is always a proxied object. What is means is that a subclass is created at runtime where the target method is overridden and advices are included based on their configuration.
  --> define the where.
5. AOP proxy: Spring AOP implementation uses JDK dynamic proxy to create the Proxy classes with target classes and advice invocations, these are called AOP proxy classes. We can also use CGLIB proxy by adding it as the dependency in the Spring AOP project.
6. Weaving: It is the process of linking aspects with other objects to create the advised proxy objects. This can be done at compile time, load time or at runtime. Spring AOP performs weaving at the runtime.
 --> weaving: the process of applying aspects to a target object to create a new proxied object.
-- The key unit of modularity in OOP is the class, whereas in AOP the unit of modularity is the aspect.
-- aspects help to modularize cross-cutting concerns.
-- cross-cutting concern: any functionality that affects multiple points of a system.
-- AOP: an alternative to Inheritance and delegation.

Scaffolding is a meta-programming method of building database-backed software applications. It
is a technique supported by some model-view-controller frameworks, in which the programmer may
 write a specification that describes how the application database may be used. The compiler
uses this specification to generate code that the application can use to create, read, update
and delete database entries, effectively treating the template as a "scaffold" on which to build
a more powerful application.
--> Scafolding is usually some type of code generation where you point it at a database, and the technology creates basic CRUD (create, read, update, delete) screens.

Metaprogramming is the writing of computer programs that write or manipulate other programs
(or themselves) as their data, or that do part of the work at compile time that would otherwise
 be done at runtime.

active record pattern
an approach to accessing data in a database. A database table or view is wrapped into a class.
 Thus, an object  instance is tied to a single row in the table. After creation of an object,
 a new row is added to the table upon save. Any object loaded gets its information from the
database. When an object is updated the corresponding row in the table is also updated. The
wrapper class implements accessor methods or properties for each column in the table or view.

continuous query
traditional query: the query result is static, represents a snapshot of db in the past.
continuous query: the query result is dynamic, updated constantly in real-time.
++ is ideal for situations in which an application repeats a particular query, and would benefit
 from always having instant access to the up-to-date result of that query.
--> a Coherence Continuous Query is a cached query result that never gets out-of-date.

oracle optimizer hints
all_rows: explicitly chooses the cost-based approach to optimize a statement block with a goal of best throughput (that is, minimum total resource consumption).
designed to minimize overall machine resources and disk I/O.
tends to favor full table scans, and is generally used in large data warehouses where immediate response time is not required.
the downside to this optimization technique that no rows from the query will be available until the entire query has been completed.
e.g. SELECT /*+ ALL_ROWS */ empno, ename, sal, job FROM emp WHERE empno = 7566;

first_rows: instruct Oracle to optimize an individual SQL statement for fast response.
 goal is to begin to return rows to the query as quickly as possible, even if it means extra disk I/O.
use index. has the downside of causing additional I/O within the database as the index nodes are accessed.
e.g. SELECT /*+ FIRST_ROWS(10) */ empno, ename, sal, job FROM emp WHERE deptno = 20;

Read-consistent queries: Queries that produce consistent results with respect to a
point in time.

read consistency (oracle)

Statement-Level Read Consistency:
all the data returned by a single query comes from a single point in time when the query began. Therefore, a query never sees 'dirty' data nor any of the changes made by transactions that commit during query execution.
-- > Guarantees that the set of data seen by a statement is consistent with respect to a single point in time and does not change during statement execution

Transaction-Level Read Consistency:
the data returned by all the queries comes from a single point in time

By default, Oracle guarantees statement-level read consistency. The set of data returned by
 a single query is consistent with respect to a single point in time. However, in some situations,
 you might also require transaction-level read consistency. This is the ability to run multiple
queries within a single transaction, all of which are read-consistent with respect to the
same point in time, so that queries in this transaction do not see the effects of
intervening committed transactions. If you want to run a number of queries against multiple tables
 and if you are not doing any updating, you prefer a read-only transaction.

strategy pattern:
where algorithms are represented as interchangeable objects

software architectural style
generally refers to "a set of design rules that identify the kinds of components and connectors that may
be used to compose a system or subsystem.

MVC model 2
separates the view layer (JSP page, for example) from the controller layer (JavaServer Faces navigation rules or Struts action classes for page flow control).

SQL injection attack
To protect against SQL injection, user input must not directly be embedded in SQL statements.
use parameterized statements

The higher the level, the less detail. The lower the level, the more detail.
higher level of abstraction

should throw exceptions at the same level of abstraction as the method itself.

cross that bridge when one comes to it
to delay worrying about something that might happen until it actually does happen.
Let's cross that bridge when we come to it: a way of telling someone not to worry about something that has not happened yet.

aggregate:
A collection of objects that are bound together by a root entity, otherwise known as an aggregate root.
 The aggregrate root guarantees the consistency of changes being made within the aggregate by forbidding external objects from holding references to its members.
An aggregate also defines the boundary for concurrency control
a unit of business entity

++++++ From DDD +++++++++

    * Services: When an operation does not conceptually belong to any object. Following the natural contours of the problem, you can implement these operations in services. The Service concept is called "Pure Fabrication" in GRASP.

    * Repositories: methods for retrieving domain objects should delegate to a specialized Repository object such that alternative storage implementations may be easily interchanged.

    * Factories: methods for creating domain objects should delegate to a specialized Factory object such that alternative implementations may be easily interchanged.

+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Multiversion concurrency control (abbreviated MCC or MVCC),
in the database field of computer science, is a concurrency control method commonly used by database management
systems to provide concurrent access to the database and in programming languages to implement transactional memory.
For instance, a database will implement updates not by deleting an old piece of data and overwriting it with
a new one, but instead by marking the old data as obsolete and adding the newer "version."

Test-driven development
is a software development process that relies on the repetition of a very short development cycle:
first the developer writes a failing automated test case that defines a desired improvement or new function,
then produces code to pass that test and finally refactors the new code to acceptable standards.
++++
Test-driven development requires developers to create automated unit tests that define code requirements
(immediately) before writing the code itself. The tests contain assertions that are either true or false.
Passing the tests confirms correct behavior as developers evolve and refactor the code. Developers often
use testing frameworks, such as xUnit, to create and automatically run sets of test cases.
+++
each new feature begins with writing a test

capitalize a cost
to classify a cost as a long-term investment
A capitalized cost does not appear on the income statement, but instead appears as a debit on the
long-term assets account and a credit on the cash account of the balance sheet.
+++
means to record the amount of an item in a balance sheet account as opposed to the income statement.

mind map
is a diagram used to represent words, ideas, tasks, or other items linked to and arranged around a
central key word or idea.
++
a graphical method of taking notes

Ishikawa diagrams (also called fishbone diagrams or cause-and-effect diagrams) are diagrams that show
 the causes of a certain event. Common uses of the Ishikawa diagram are product design  and quality
 defect prevention, to identify potential factors causing an overall effect. Each cause or reason
 for imperfection is a source of variation.

SOFEA (Service-Oriented Front-End Architecture) apps, where the backend serves up XML or JSON and
the frontend client is
HTML/JavaScript/CSS, Android, iPad or Sony Blu-Ray players.

essential complexity is inherent and unavoidable.
accidental complexity is caused by the approach chosen to solve the problem

SOA is about loose coupling between systems. loose couping means eliminating implicit dependencies
between systems and stating all legitimate dependencies in the form of explicit contracts.

desire path (desire line or social trail)
is a path developed by erosion caused by animal or human footfall. The path usually represents
the shortest or most easily navigated route between an origin and destination.

long on style but short on subtance

DMZ, or demilitarized zone is a physical or logical subnetwork that contains and exposes an
 organization's external services to a larger untrusted network, usually the Internet.
The purpose of a DMZ is to add an additional layer of security to an organization's local area network (LAN);
 an external attacker only has access to equipment in the DMZ, rather than any other part of the network.

OWSM has two ways of enforcing (or applying) security etc. for a Web Service. Oracle calls
these Policy Enforcement Points (PEPs). The two types of PEPs are called Gateways and Agents.
+++
Gateways
Runs in the OAS and acts as an proxy for all incoming requests. The Gateway inspects the request and
allows or disallows it to pass-through to the Web Service.
    * Content routing so which Web Service that is called is based on the content in the message request.
    * Do not guarantee endpoint-level security, meaning that the communication between a Gateway and a Web Service is not encrypted.
+++
Agents : security inside containers
An Agent can either run server side with the actual Web Service or client side with the Web Service client.
 It can be configured to communicate with the OWSM Policy Manager. If it is, it retrieves its security
information (the policies to enforce/apply) from the Policy Manager. If the the Policy Manager is disabled,
 then the Agent will look for a local file that contains the most recently retrieved set of security
 policies to be enforced/applied.
---------------
A client-side Agent would typically be used if the client does not support the security protocols
needed to consume Web Services -- e.g., encrypting the requests it sends (or portions of the requests),
 validating signatures on the responses it gets in return, etc. A server-side Agent would typically
 be used to guarantee endpoint-level security by, for instance, requiring requests it receives to
be digitally signed, encrypting the responses (or portions of the responses) being returned, etc.
 These are just examples of a couple of security features that the OWSM Agents support, and is not
 by any means an exhaustive list.
---------------
Gateways are easier to implement than Agents.

transitive closure: another definition
all the objects that can be reached from a particular root

Correlation Identifier pattern:
How does a requestor that has received a reply know which request this is the reply for?
how to know which request the reply is for?

junction table (for many-to-many relationship)
a junction table is a table that contains common fields from two or more tables. It is
on the many side of a one-to-many relationship with each of the other tables. Junction
tables are known under many names, among them cross-reference table, bridge table, join table,
 map table, intersection table, linking table, many-to-many resolver, link table, or association table.

Idempotent Receiver
Design a receiver to be an Idempotent Receiver--one that can safely receive the same message multiple times.

MVC
The model is not a database: the 'model' in MVC is both the data and the business/domain logic needed to manipulate the data in the application.
he view renders the model into a form suitable for interaction
A controller accepts input from the user and instructs the model and viewport to perform actions based on that input.
User uses controller to manipulate model, which updates the view.

General average
The law of general average is a legal principle of maritime law according to which all parties
in a sea venture proportionally share any losses resulting from a voluntary sacrifice of part of the ship or cargo to save the whole in an emergency.
In the exigencies of hazards faced at sea, crew members often have precious little time in which
to determine precisely whose cargo they are jettisoning. Thus, to avoid quarrelling that could
waste valuable time, there arose the equitable practice whereby all the merchants whose cargo
landed safely would be called on to contribute a portion, based upon a share or percentage,
to the merchant or merchants whose goods had been tossed overboard to avert imminent peril.
 While general average traces its origins in ancient maritime law, still it remains part of
the admiralty law of most countries.

butcher's bill: A count of soldier casualties after a battle, sometimes used for civilians after a large disater.

UML Stereotype
A Stereotype is there and used to present more information about the artifact which the
documentation or the Classification of the same into a specific block of artifacts may not give.
++
a mechanism to categorize an element in some way. A stereotype name is surrounded by Gulliments symbols <<

TIBCO ADB adapter is a generic database adapter which can be used to connect to different
 databases from different vendors.

trees - data structures that consist of nodes with optional data elements and one or
more child pointers/references, and possibly parent pointers, representing a heirarchical or
ordered set of data elements.
++++
a hierarchical data structure with a set of linked nodes.
where each node has zero or more children nodes and at most one parent node.
+++
a binary tree is a tree data structure in which each node has at most two child nodes, usually distinguished as "left" and "right".
+++
a B-tree is a tree data structure that keeps data sorted and allows searches, sequential access,
insertions, and deletions in logarithmic amortized time. The B-tree is a generalization of
 a binary search tree in that a node can have more than two children.

graphs - data structures that represent arbitrary relationships between members of any data set,
 represented as networks of nodes and edges.
+++
A graph data structure consists mainly of a finite (and possibly mutable) set of ordered pairs, called edges
 or arcs, of certain entities called nodes or vertices. As in mathematics, an edge (x,y) is said to
point or go from x to y.
+++
graph db: stores information as arbitrarily interconnected nodes linked by named relations.

TOAD (Tool for Oracle Application Developers): a db dev and admin tool

a solution stack is a set of software subsystems or components needed to deliver a fully functional solution
For example, to develop a web application, the designer needs to use an operating system, web server, database and programming language. Another version of a solution stack is operating system, middleware, database, and applications
One of the many possible solution stacks available is LAMP

dynamic typing: when the majority of its type checking is performed at run-time as opposed to at compile-time

has-a: used to indicate part-whole relationship
is-a: used to indicate inheritance
inheritance vs delegation

linked list (when to use it)
1 . you need constant-time insertions/deletions from the list (such as in real-time computing where time predictability is absolutely critical)
2. you don't know how many items will be in the list. With arrays, you may need to re-declare and copy memory if the array grows too big
3. you don't need random access to any elements
4. you want to be able to insert items in the middle of the list (such as a priority queue)
array vs linked list
Arrays have O(1) random access, but are really expensive to add stuff onto or remove stuff from.
inked lists are really cheap to add or remove items anywhere and to iterate, but random access is O(n).
++++
if you want to insert/delete in the middle and you don't want to resize and shift things around.

balanced tree:
A balanced tree is a tree which is balanced - it has roughly the same height on each of its sub-nodes.
 A balanced tree will have the lowest possible overall height.
---
operations on the tree always are guaranteed to have O(lg n) time, rather than the O(n) time that
they might have in an unbalanced tree.

O(log n): Finding an item in a sorted array with a binary search or a balanced search tree as well as all operations in a Binomial heap.

Travelling Salesman Problem
given a list of cities and their pairwise distances, the problem is to find the
shortest possible route that visits each city exactly once.

method dispatch: the process of mapping a method call to a method implementation.
--> single dispatch: a method call is dispatched based on the type of the object on which
the method is called.
--> multiple dispatch: a method call is dispatched based on multiple pieces of info (typically
the types of the arguments).

dynamic dispatch
is the process of mapping a message to a specific sequence of code (method) at runtime.
This is done to support the cases where the appropriate method cannot be determined at compile-time
(i.e. statically). Dynamic dispatch is only used for code invocation and not for other binding
 processes (such as for global variables) and the name is normally only used to describe a language
 feature where a runtime decision is required to determine which code to invoke.

XSD all element:
The all element specifies that the child elements can appear in any order and that each child element
 can occur zero or one time.
maxOccurs: must be 1
minOccurs: The value can be 0 or 1

XSLT: With XSLT you can transform XML documents into other formats, like XHTML.
XQuery is about querying XML data.
XQuery is designed to query anything that can appear as XML, including databases.
Linking in XML is divided into two parts: XLink and XPointer.
XLink and XPointer define a standard way of creating hyperlinks in XML documents.

A "Dear John letter" is a letter written to a husband or boyfriend by his wife or girlfriend to
inform him their relationship is over, usually because the author has found another lover.

A stalking horse is a person who tests a concept with someone or mounts a challenge against them on
behalf of an anonymous third party. If the idea proves viable and/or popular, the anonymous figure
 can then declare their interest and advance the concept with little risk of failure. If the concept
fails, the anonymous party will not be tainted by association and can either drop the idea completely
or bide their time and wait until a better moment for launching an attack.

stalking-horse bid
An initial bid on a bankrupt company's assets from an interested buyer chosen by the bankrupt company.
 From a pool of bidders, the bankrupt company chooses the stalking horse to make the first bid.
++
This method allows the distressed company to avoid low bids on its assets. Once the stalking horse
has made its bid, other potential buyers may submit competing bids for the bankrupt company's assets.
 In essence, the stalking horse sets the bar so that other bidders can't low-ball the purchase price.

RESTFul web services: four principles
    * Use HTTP methods explicitly.
    * Be stateless.
    * Expose directory structure-like URIs.
    * Transfer XML, JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), or both.

a mashup is a web page or application that uses and combines data, presentation or functionality from
 two or more sources to create new services.

DWR : Direct Web Remoting
is a Java open source library that helps developers write web sites that include Ajax technology. It allows code in a web browser to use Java functions running on a web server as if those functions were within the browser.

scaffolding code:
triggers or updateable views which support refactorings
The attribute(s) and operations required to implement a relationship are often referred to as scaffolding.

inflection point: An event that changes the way we think and act; A moment of dramatic change

Eclipse facet
Facets define characteristics and requirements for Java EE projects and are used as part
 of the runtime configuration.
++
When you add a facet to a project, that project is configured to perform a certain task,
 fulfill certain requirements, or have certain characteristics. For example,
the EAR facet sets up a project to function as an enterprise application by adding
a deployment descriptor and setting up the project's classpath.
++++
facets define additional behavior for a J2EE project

waterline, national Load Line or Plimsoll Line was invented by Samuel Plimsoll,
 to be positioned amidships, indicating the legal limit to which a ship may be loaded
for specific water types and temperatures.

deadweight tonnage (DWT)
is a measure of how much weight a ship is carrying or can safely carry.
 It is the sum of the weights of cargo, fuel, fresh water, ballast water, provisions,
passengers, and crew.[1] The term is often used to specify a ship's maximum permissible
 deadweight, the DWT when the ship is fully loaded so that its Plimsoll line is at the
point of submersion,
++
an expression of a ship's carrying capacity, including the weight of the crew, passengers,
 cargo, fuel, ballast, drinking water, and stores.

+++++++++++++++
JPA:
an API for persisting java object in a relational db.
An entity is a lightweight persistence domain object. Typically an entity represents a table in a r
elational database, and each entity instance corresponds to a row in that table. The primary programming artifact of an entity is the entity class, although entities can use helper classes.
++
The persistent state of an entity is represented either through persistent fields or persistent properties.
These fields or properties use object/relational mapping annotations to map the entities and entity relationships to the relational data in the underlying data store.

mapped superclass
A mapped superclass is not a persistent class, but allow common mappings to be defined for its subclasses.
A mapped superclass has no separate table defined for it.

++++++++++++++++

JPA: setFirstResult()
The setFirstResult(N) method is used to skip the first "N"  elements from the result set.
Please note that the counting starts from 0, so if you specify 2 then first 3 records will be skipped.
JPA: setMaxResults()

Property of programming language
A property, in some object-oriented programming languages, is a special sort of class member,
intermediate between a field (or data member) and a method. Properties are read and written like fields,
 but property reads and writes are (usually) translated to get and set method calls. The field-like syntax
is said to be easier to read and write than lots of method calls, yet the interposition of method calls
allows for data validation, active updating (as of GUI visuals), and/or read-only 'fields'. That is,
 properties are intermediate between member code (methods) and member data (instance variables)
of the class, and properties provide a higher level of encapsulation than public fields.

rolling upgrade: the nodes in a cluster are upgraded one at a time

Java singleton:
public enum YourSingleton {
	INSTANCE;

	public void doStuff(String stuff) {
		System.out.println("Doing " + stuff);
	}
}

++++++++++++++++++++++

Weaving is a technique of manipulating the byte-code of compiled Java classes. The EclipseLink JPA
persistence provider uses weaving to enhance JPA entities for such things as lazy loading, change tracking,
 fetch groups, and internal optimizations.

JPA: one to many
use mappedBy if bidirectional relationship in model
use @JoinColumn if unidirectional relationship in model.
use @JoinTable if
e.g.
@JoinColumn(name = "CGO_REF", referencedColumnName = "REF_NUM")

@JoinColumn:
	columnDefinition: not needed
	name: name of the foreign key column.
	referencedColumnName: The name of the column referenced by this foreign key column.

one-to-one
public class Employee {
  @Id
  @Column(name="EMP_ID")
  private long id;
  ...
  @OneToOne(fetch=FetchType.LAZY)
  @JoinColumn(name="ADDRESS_ID")
  private Address address;

many-to-many
public class Employee {
  @Id
  @Column(name="EMP_ID")
  private long id;
  ...
  @ManyToMany
  @JoinTable(
      name="EMP_PROJ",
      joinColumns={@JoinColumn(name="EMP_ID", referencedColumnName="EMP_ID")},
      inverseJoinColumns={@JoinColumn(name="PROJ_ID", referencedColumnName="PROJ_ID")})
  private List<Project> projects;

eclipse perspective:
A perspective determines the visible actions, views, and view layout

content-addressable storage: a file is retrieved based on its contents, not its storage location.
when you store a file, the system calculates a content address, which is later used to retrieve the file.

JPA merge
Usually merge() is used in the following scenario:

    the application loads an object in the first entity manager
    the object is passed up to the presentation layer
    some modifications are made to the object
    the object is passed back down to the business logic layer
    the application persists these modifications by calling merge() in a second entity manager

Here is the exact semantic of merge():

    if there is a managed instance with the same identifier currently associated with the persistence
 context, copy the state of the given object onto the managed instance
    if there is no managed instance currently associated with the persistence context, try to load it
 from the database, or create a new managed instance
    the managed instance is returned
    the given instance does not become associated with the persistence context, it remains detached and
is usually discarded

Persist takes an entity instance, adds it to the context and makes that instance managed
(ie future updates to the entity will be tracked)

Merge creates a new instance of your entity, copies the state from the supplied entity, and makes
 the new copy managed. The instance you pass in will not be managed (any changes you make will not
 be part of the transaction - unless you call merge again).

================

A QR code (abbreviated from Quick Response code) is a type of matrix barcode (or two-dimensional code)
can store URL

unicode 0x262f : tai chi symbol

a continuation is an abstract representation of the control state of a computer program.
Continuations represent execution state that can be re-invoked

cascading: performing the same operation on a dependent object: persist, remove, refresh.
	should be used in dependent relationships only.
orphan removal: when a dependent object is removed from a relationship, it will be auto-deleted.

MapReduce
map: a function that divides work and distributes it to different nodes in a cluster.
Reduce: collates the work and merges the results into a single value
---
the result of the Map computation is a list of key-value pairs
Reduce then takes each set of values that has the same key and combines them into a single value.
----
Map: Do some data processing to every element of a collection (apply the same function to
every element of a collection)
Reduce: Iterate over the collection of data produced by the Map step and summarize the results.
---
MapReduce is a programming model for parallel processing. it works by breaking the processing
into two phases: the map phase and the reduce phase.
in the map phase, the input is divided into smaller chunks and processed.
in the reduce phase, the answers from the map phase are collected and merged into a single value.
---
map: data transformation
reduce: aggregation

Hadoop: a framework for distributed processing

same-origin policy
JavaScript communications are restricted to the host serving the web page.
it means scripts loaded from one site cannot interact with scripts from other sites.
scripts loaded from one site can only communicate with that particular site.
XMLHTTPRequest object is allowed to communicate only with URLs within its own domain.
---
The same origin policy prevents a document or script loaded from one origin from getting or setting
properties of a document from another origin.
---
same origin policy says that the content loaded from one site is not allowed to interact
with the content loaded from other sites.

federated network identity
A network identity scheme involving multiple repositories of identities instead of a
 central logical identity repository.
--> It means linking identity information stored across multiple identity management systems.
---
network identity
An identity that is recognized throughout a network, such as the Internet or an enterprise LAN
---
Networks, whether wireless or wired, may be loosely associated and coalesced into small groups
called federations
----
Federated networks are composed of several member networks that share some level of trust,
but member networks retain their own administrative control.
===
Federated identity allows users to link identity information between accounts without centrally
 storing personal information. This enables them to have a singular authentication without having
to logon with varying usernames and passwords.
===
SAML eliminates the need to maintain multiple authentication credentials in multiple locations?

DHTML is a TERM for making interactive web pages.
DHTML combines HTML, JavaScript, the HTML DOM, and CSS.
what is the DOM?
   --  a tree-based model for representing HTML and XML docs
   --  a language-indepedent API for accessing elements in HTML/XML docs
   --  a w3c standard
The HTML DOM is a standard for how to get, change, add, or delete HTML elements.
The contents of a web page are available to the JS program thru a mechanism called the DOM.
The DOM is an API by which languauges (such as JS) can access the contents of a web page.
====
when the browser renders a web page, it constructs a Document Object Model, a collection of
objects that represent the HTML elements on the page.
====
HTML contents are made available to script code via an object hierarchy called DOM.
====
to make interactive web pages, you need to manipulate the HTML document in the browser.
the language for doing this is JavaScript.
To manipulate the HTML document, you manipulate the DOM.
the Document Object Model is the way JavaScript sees the browser state and the HTML page it contains.
====
 AJAX is a way of exchanging data with a server, and updating parts of a web page - without reloading
 the whole page.
---
ajax is the concept of refreshing part of a HTML document without reloading the entire page.

In mathematics, two lines or curves are orthogonal if they are perpendicular at their point of intersection.
Two vectors are orthogonal if and only if their dot product is zero.
In computer science, orthogonality has to do with the ability of a language, method, or object to vary without
side-effects. When two statistics vary independently of each other, they are considered orthogonal.

testing concepts
===
Dummy objects are passed around but never actually used. Usually they are just used to fill parameter lists.
===
Fake objects actually have working implementations, but usually take some shortcut which makes them not suitable for production (an in memory database is a good example).
Fake objects act like the real object, but they go about it in a simpler way -- such as a DAO that uses a Map to store data instead of a real database.
===
Stubs provide canned answers to calls made during the test, usually not responding at all to anything outside what's programmed in for the test. Stubs may also record information about calls, such as an email gateway stub that remembers the messages it 'sent', or maybe only how many messages it 'sent'.
Stub objects provide a valid response, but it's static -- no matter what input you pass in, you'll always get the same response.
===
Mock objects are used in mock test cases -- they validate that certain methods are called on those objects.
Mocks are what we are talking about here: objects pre-programmed with expectations which form a
specification of the calls they are expected to receive.
Mocks are like stubs on steroids. They also know which methods to call and with what arguments.
 mock objects are simulated objects that mimic the behavior of real objects in controlled ways.
--> mock object: simulate the behavior of real objects upon which some code depends.
---
stubs enable state verification. you set expectations on mock objects (like which methods will be called)
mocks enable behavior verification
--> mock: you create expectations on which methods will be called on the mock objects
--> mock: represent a series of expectations

Recursion
===
solve a problem by solving smaller instances of the same problem
===
In traditional recursion, the typical model is that you perform your recursive calls first,
and then you take the return value of the recursive call and calculate the result. In this
 manner, you don't get the result of your calculation until you have returned from every recursive call.
+++
In tail recursion, you perform your calculations first, and then you execute the recursive call,
 passing the results of your current step to the next recursive step. This results in the last
 statement being in the form of "(return (recursive-function params))" (I think that's the syntax
for Lisp). Basically, the return value of any given recursive step is the same as the return value
 of the next recursive call.
+++
Tail Recursion is a specialized type of recursion where there is a guarantee that nothing is
 left to execute in the function after a recursive call. In other words, the function returns
 the result of a recursive call.
====
A function is tail-recursive if there is nothing left to do in the function after a recursive call.
===
A compiler is said to implement tail recursion if it reuses the current stack frame instead of
creating a new stack frame.
==
tail call optimization: the ability to call a function without allocating a new stack frame.
Can only happen if the called function is in the tail position.

Database sharding: a shared-nothing, horizontal partitioning scheme for large databases.
A large database is divided into multiple smaller databases. Rows of a table are distributed
among these smaller databases.

Helper method: a method that can be called from many places to perform some task.

Wrapper class: provide a different way to access another class/object. Scenarios:
(a) to hide complexity of another class (b) to perform something in a generic way (e.g.,
 multiple serialization formats using multiple classes). Almost like a facade.

mediator pattern: an object that encapsulates how a set of objects interact

modular arithmetic: where numbers wrap around after they reach a certain value -> modulus
a = b (mod n) if a-b is an integer multiple of n.
e.g., 38=14 (mod 12) ; -8=7 (mod 5) ; 2=-3 (mod 5); -3=-8 (mod 5)
if same sign, a/n and b/n have the same remainder.

remainder: a=qd+r (a=dividend, q=quotient, d=divisor, r=remainder) and |r|<|d|
that means there are two possible remainders, one negative and the other positive.
Languages choose the remainder with the same sign as the dividend/divisor.

An inferior planet (closer to the sun than Earth - Mercury and Venus) is said to be "in inferior conjunction" when
 it is directly between the Earth and the Sun. It is "in superior conjunction" when it is on the opposite side of
the Sun from the Earth. The superior planets (the six planets farther from the Sun than Earth) are "in conjunction"
when it is on the opposite side of the Sun from the Earth. A superior planet obviously cannot have an
inferior conjunction.

New moon: the phase of the moon when the moon passes between the sun and the earth
New moon (original meaning): the sighting of the first crescent (the time and date depend on the
location of the observer)

Metonic cycle: 19 years is almost exactly equal to 235 synodic months
Synodic month: the time between two new moons.

Chinese calendar: 7 intercalary months every 19 years

Network address translation: the process of modifying IP address info in a network packet
 while the packet is in transit.
Typical: enable multiple hosts on a private network to access the Internet using a single public IP address.

Port forwarding: a technique for allowing a remote computer to connect to a computer in a private network.
When configuring port forwarding, the network administrator sets aside one port number on the gateway
for the exclusive use of communicating with a service in the private network, located on a specific host.

Durian (how to choose)
1. shake it: if no sound, it is too ripe. hard knock: not ripe enough. dull, subtle knocks: just right
   should hear some slightly movement.
2. smell: neither too strong nor too raw
3. stem: very dry stem means it has been kept for a while. wet stem: fresh
4. choose one that is shapely rather than round

idempotent capability: network/hw failure can lead to lost messages. Need to resend.
May send multiple.
Design services to be idempotent: it means the system can safely accept multiple
copies of the same message.
Not all services can be idempotent (increment, decrement)
----
An idempotent HTTP method is a HTTP method that can be called many times without different outcomes.
Safe methods are HTTP methods that do not modify resources.

OOP identity: the property of an object that distinguishes it from other objects.
is whatever makes an object distinct from other objects.
What makes up the identity of an object in an object-oriented system? A common answer is "object identity" is defined by being in the same spot in memory, which is called "reference equality" and matches Java's == operator.

state object: an object that stores mutable state and is identified through reference equality
value object: is always immutable and is identified through value equality.

++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
concurrency approaches: STM, msg-passing concurrency, dataflow concurrency.
other concurrency approaches: future/promise/delay, coroutine(??)
Software transactional memory (STM)
see the memory as a transactional db (begin/commit/rollback)

actor model of concurrency (message-passing concurrency)
actor: basic computational unit
is a lightweight process
communicate thru messages (sent/received through mailboxes (message queue))
asynchronous and non-blocking
no shared state

future/delay/promise: refer to constructs used for synchronizing in some concurrent programming languages. They
describe an object that acts as a proxy for a result that is initially unknown, usually because the
computation of its value is yet incomplete. Setting the value of a future is also called resolving,
fulfilling, or binding it.
--> a placeholder for something that you will get in the future.
---> future: an asynchronous task that computes a value for later use.
--> an object that immediately returns from an asynchronous message call. the future becomes
the result once the result is available. If you ask for the value of a future before the result
is available, the process blocks until the value is available.
--> future: a concurrency construct that allows an asynchronous return before computation is complete.
--> future: a construct that computes a value asynchronously and represents a value that will become
available in the future.
future/promise: an object that represents the result of an asynchronous function call.

coroutine: a coroutine is a subroutine or function that can pause in the middle and return a value. When you
call it again it picks up right where it was when you paused, environment intact, and keeps on going.
Coroutines are almost always closures,
--> coroutines are symmetric units that explicitly activate each other; they do not return, but
resume each other.
--> coroutines are threads that are cooperatively scheduled. they yield to each other.

Java: take a threading approach to concurrency.
A process consists of one or more threads. Threads have their own execution path but share
resources with other threads in the same process. Shared resources lead to the need for locking.
To coordinate control between applications sharing resources, threading system require semaphore
or system-level locks.
--> threads with shared resources versus shared-nothing processes.
-> thread of execution: the smallest sequence of programmed instructions that can be managed independently by an operating system scheduler.
fiber: like thread, share address space, fibers use cooperative multitasking. threads use
preemptive multitasking. Threads often depend on the kernel's thread scheduler to preempt a busy thread and
resume another thread; fibers yield themselves to run another fiber while executing.
--> fiber describe the same concept as coroutine.
that coroutines are a language-level construct, a form of control flow, while fibers are a systems-level construct, viewed as threads that happen not to run concurrently

dataflow concurrency: a variable can only be assigned once in its lifetime.
if you read a variable before it is bound, you will block until someone assigns a value to it.
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Parallelism refers to physically simultaneous execution. raise your arms in parallel.
--> requires multiple processing units.
Concurrency refers to conceptually simultaneous execution. juggling 3 balls (throw/catch one ball at a time).
--> can be implemented on a single processing unit.
execution agent: the number of core/CPU.

Global interpreter lock (GIL): is a mutual exclusion lock held by a programming language interpreter
thread to avoid sharing code that is not thread-safe with other threads
Some language implementations that implement a Global Interpreter Lock are CPython, the most widely
used implementation of Python and Ruby MRI, the reference implementation of Ruby (where it is called Global VM Lock).

Typeface: A set of fonts in the same style. Or, in other words, a font family.
Ex: Times New Roman, Helvetica, or Arial.
Another acceptable way to refer to a typeface can be a font-family.
is a set of characters that share common design features.
====
Font: A single kind of typeface. Ex: Times New Roman in 10 point size is a font, and
Times New Roman in 14 point size is also a font. Times New Roman in Bold is also a font.
(Basically designating a specific type inside of a typeface is a font.)
----
Typeface is a broader term that describes the whole set and Font is the specific variation of a typeface.
====
Typesetting: the composition of text using types (or sorts: a stored letter in a mechanical system)
===
font is the delivery mechanism and a typeface is the creative work.
font is what you use, and typeface is what you see.

seizure: often used interchaneably with convulsion.
Convulsions are when a person's body shakes uncontrollably.
Seizures are episodes of disturbed brain activity that cause changes in attention or behavior.

clojure:
need to implement an abstraction for an existing , hard-to-modify object:
adapter (wrapper), monkey patch, multimethod, protocol

clojure: (defn blank? [s] (every? #(Character/isWhitespace %) s))

thread-local storage: a programming method that uses global memory local to a thread.
====
normally global variables are shared by all threads in a process. TLS is a mechanism
where each thread gets a private copy of a global variable.
----
normally all threads in a process share the same address space, which is sometimes undesirable.
In other words, data in a static or global variable is normally always located at the same memory location,
when referred to by threads from the same process. Variables on the call stack however are local to threads,
because each thread has its own stack, residing in a different memory location.
Sometimes it is desirable that two threads referring to the same static or global variable are actually
referring to different memory locations, thereby making the variable thread local, a canonical example
being the C error code variable errno.

lexical scope (also called static scoping or static scope) vs dynamic scope:
 In a lexically scoped language, the scope of an identifier is fixed at compile time to some region in
the source code containing the identifier's declaration. This means that an identifier is only accessible
within that region (including procedures declared within it).
dynamic scope: the scope depends on the nesting of functions at run time.
Perl and common lisp allow you to choose between static and dynamic scoping.
Most languages use static scoping

form follows function
the shape of an object should be based on its intended function or purpose.

Comet is a web application model in which a long-held HTTP request allows a web server to push data to a browser,
without the browser explicitly requesting it.
Comet is known by several other names, including Ajax Push, Reverse Ajax, Two-way-web, HTTP Streaming,
 and HTTP server push among others.

using a persistent or long-lasting HTTP connection between the server and the client.
The biggest hurdle is the HTTP 1.1 specification, which states that a browser should not have
more than two simultaneous connections with a web serve

referential transparency:
-- the same function with the same input will always return the same result.
a term commonly used in functional programming, means that given a function and an input value, you will always receive the same output.
With a referential transparent function, given an input and a function, you could replace it with a value instead of calling the function.
e.g., 5*5 can be replaced by 25.
referential opaqueness: Calling the function may not always produce the same output.

memoization:
a memoized function remembers the results for certain input values.
Subsequent calls with the remembered inputs will just return the remembered result
instead of recalculating it.
an optimization technique. optimized for speed in exchange for a higher use of memory.
memoization is a run-time optimization
--> means caching the result of a function/method call.
Can be done if a method always returns the same result for an input value (referential transparency).

forward proxy: takes requests from an internal network and forwards them to the internet.
reverse proxy: takes requests from the internet and forwards them to servers in an internal network.
---
Forward Proxy: Acting on behalf of a requestor (or service consumer)
Reverse Proxy: Acting on behalf of service/content producer.

static binding: the function call is mapped to the function definition at compile time.
Dynamic binding: the function call is mapped to the function definition at run time.
virtual function (C++): declare virtual function if you want dynamic binding.

lexical variable: A lexical variable is a variable that can be referenced only within the lexical scope of the form that establishes that variable; lexical variables have lexical scope. Each time a form creates a lexical binding of a variable, a fresh binding is established.

expression problem:
how do you extend existing types to new methods and extend existing methods to new types
without changing existing code
OR: how do you add new types to existing methods and add new methods to existing types
without changing existing code
--> how do you create new types implementing existing interfaces and implement new interfaces
for existing types without recompiling existing code.

A cons cell is composed of two pointers; the car operation extracts the first pointer, and the cdr operation extracts the second.
When cons cells are used to implement singly linked lists (rather than trees and other more complicated structures), the car operation returns the first element of the list, while cdr returns the rest of the list. For this reason, the operations are sometimes given the names first and rest or head and tail.

SOLID:
single responsibility principle, open/closed principle, liskov substitution principle,
interface segregation, dependency inversion.
-->
Single responsibility: a class should have only one responsibility.
Open/closed: software should be open for extension, but closed for modification (means adding new
behavior with mininum changes to existing code)
Liskov substitution: if a program module is using a Base class, then the reference to the Base class can be replaced with a Derived class without affecting the functionality of the program module.
or: if S is a subtype of T, then objects of type T may be replaced with objects of type S without changing
the correctness of the program.
or: objects of a base class can be replaced with objects of a derived class without altering the correctness
of the program.
or:  must make sure that the new derived classes just extend without replacing the functionality of old classes. Otherwise the new classes can produce undesired effects when they are used in existing program modules.
--> Derived types must be completely substitutable for their base types.
--> BEST: objects should be replaceable by their subtypes
Interface segregation: a client should not be forced to implement interfaces it does not use.
--> clients should not have to depend on abstractions they don't use.
--> it is better to have many small interfaces than one big interface.
--> BEST: small, specific interfaces are better than monolithic ones.
Dependency inversion: high-level classes should not depend on low-level classes. both should
depend on abstractions. For example: Manager class has an inst var of class Worker (bad).
Should have an inst var of interface IWorker. The Worker class implements IWorker.

Reference equality: == (java)
Value equality: equals() (java)

reification: a process by which an abstract idea is turned into an object (or data model).
example:
functional language: reify the concept of a function abstraction in the form of lambda expression.
Scheme reifies continuations
smalltalk: thisContext is a reification of the current executing block.

RDF (resource description framework): a framework for describing web resources, such
as the title, author, of a web page.

Voltaire quote: perfect is the enemy of good
Dont let the perfect be the enemy of the good

POST vs PUT:
post: not idempotent. Post to example/users since you dont know the ID of the new object and youre asking the syetem to create one.
put: idempotent. Post to example/users/1234 since you know the ID already (create or update).
--> An idempotent method means that the result of a successful performed request is independent of the number of times it is executed

a fixed point of a function is a point that is mapped to itself by the function.
a value that, when given to a function, return itself.
e.g. 1 = sqrt(1). 1 is a fixed point of the sqrt() function.
--> a fixed-point combinator is a higher-order function that computes a fixed point of other functions

turing machine: a device that manipulates symbols on a strip of tape according to some rules.

turning complete: if I say something is turing complete, it means in principle it can be used
to solve any computational problem.

formal parameter: a reference variable declared in a function definition.
actual argument: the value you pass into a function.

Wi-fi
802.11a -> 5GHz
802.11b/g -> 2.4GHz
802.11n -> 2.4 and 5GHz
2.4GHz -> used by bluetooth, microwave, remote controlled toys, etc

CAP theorem
It is impossible for a distributed computer system to simultaneously provide all three of the following guarantees:
Consistency (all nodes see the same data at the same time)
Availability (all nodes can return data at any time): A guarantee that every request to the system receives a response about whether it was successful or not.
Partition tolerance (the system continues to operate as a whole even if individual nodes cannot be reached.)

According to the theorem, a distributed system can satisfy any two of these guarantees at the
same time, but not all three

The easiest way to understand CAP is to think of two nodes on opposite sides of a partition. Allowing at
least one node to update state will cause the nodes to become inconsistent, thus forfeiting C.
Likewise, if the choice is to preserve consistency, one side of the partition must
act as if it is unavailable, thus forfeiting A. Only when nodes communicate is it possible to preserve both
consistency and availability, thereby forfeiting P.

partition tolerant: distributed
if a node is disconnected from the rest of the system and it receives a query, it has two options:
(1) answer the query (available) even though the answer may not be consistent with the rest of the system
(2) not answer the query (consistent) because the answer may not be consistent

Maintaining strict consistency in a distributed system requires a synchronous coordination of all write operations between the nodes. This principle has two unpleasant side effects: (1) it adds latencies and increases response times; (2) it reduces the overall availability because multiple members must be available at the same time to complete a write operation.

Dropping strict consistency, on the other hand, solves the availability problem and eliminates the increased response time. The basic idea is to reestablish the global consistency after completing the write operation on a subset of the nodes. This approach leaves just one problem unsolved: it is impossible to prevent conflicts if two nodes accept contradictory changes. Consistency is eventually reached by handling conflicts, not by preventing them. In that context, consistency means that all nodes have the same data, it is not necessarily the correct or best data.

Opposite of ACID:
BASE: Basically Available Soft-state wht Eventual consistency

Consistency in ACID: means that a transaction pre-serves all the database rules,
Consistency in CAP refers only to single copy consistency

aliasing: (in signal processing)
refers to an effect that causes different signals to become indistinguishable (or aliases of one another) when
sampled. It also refers to the distortion or artifact that results when the signal reconstructed from samples is
different from the original continuous signal.
related to digital audio: temporal aliasing
related to digital images: spatial aliasing

anti-aliasing:
In computer graphics, antialiasing is a software technique for diminishing jaggies - stairstep-like lines that
should be smooth. Jaggies occur because the output device, the monitor or printer, doesn't have a high enough
resolution to represent a smooth line. Antialiasing reduces the prominence of jaggies by surrounding the
stairsteps with intermediate shades of gray (for gray-scaling devices) or color (for color devices).
Although this reduces the jagged appearance of the lines, it also makes them fuzzier.
--> spatial anti-aliasing:
the technique of minimizing aliasing when representing a high-resolution image at a lower resolution

POSIX (Portable Operating System Interface for UNIX)
a standard that defines an interface between programs and Unix-like operating systems.
the purpose is to make it easier to port programs between systems.

prototype language: JavaScript, Io, Lua, Self
--> use the object, rather than the class, as the basis for object definition

string vs symbol:
2 strings with the same value can be 2 different objects in memory.
2 symbols with the same value always refer to the same object in memory.
String: used to hold data
symbol: used to name things
symbol: an identifier consisting of a string of characters.
Symbols are used to represent names.
you can have multiple string objects with the same value.
you cannot have multiple symbol objects with the same value.

power set: a set of all the subsets of a set.
if set is {a,b,c},
then power set is { {}, {a}, {b}, {c}, {a, b}, {a, c}, {b, c}, {a, b, c} }
the power set has 2^n members

library vs framework:
a library is a set of functions you can call.
library: you are in control. you call the library.
framework: fwk is in control. fwk calls your code.

ClassNotFoundException:
thrown when you try to load a class using its string name and the class cannot be found
--> Class:forName(), ClassLoader.findSystemClass(), ClassLoader.loadClass()
NoClassDefFoundError:
Thrown if the Java Virtual Machine or a ClassLoader instance tries to load in the definition of a class (as part of a normal method call or as part of creating a new instance using the new expression) and no definition of the class could be found. also static initializer. also class visibility problem between class loaders.
Exception in thread "main" java.lang.NoClassDefFoundError: com/cheok/C
        at com.cheok.A.main(A.java:17)
Caused by: java.lang.ClassNotFoundException: com.cheok.C

graceful degradation:
web page is designed for a particular browser version and would remain presentable or degrade if
older versions of browsers are used.
=====
start with modern browsers and provide workaround for older browsers.

progressive enhancement:
the opposite of graceful degradation.
divide a web application into 3 components: HTML (structure), CSS (presentation), JavaScript (behavior)
--> a web design strategy that emphasizes accessibility to all devices, using a layered approach.
a basic HTML doc is created, geared towards the lowest common denominator of browser s/w functionality.
---
start with older browsers and add new features for modern browsers.

semantic HTML
Semantic HTML is the use of HTML markup to reinforce the semantics, or meaning, of the information in
webpages rather than merely to define its presentation (look). Semantic HTML is processed by regular web
browsers as well as by many other user agents. CSS is used to suggest its presentation to human users.
As an example, recent HTML standards discourage use of the tag <i> in preference of more specific tags
such as <em> (emphasis); the CSS stylesheet should then specify whether emphasis is denoted by an italic
font, a bold font, underlining, slower or louder audible speech etc. This is because italics are used for
purposes other than emphasis,
--> should not use presentational HTML markup such as <i>, <font>, etc

race condition
multiple threads access a resource at the same time, leading to unpredictable results.

imperative programming: you tell the computer exactly how to do a job.

binding: the process of assigning parameters based on the inbound arguments.
destructuring: binding a set of variables to a corresponding set of values.
--> you take apart a data structure and grab only the pieces that are important to you.

fail-fast vs fail-safe
fail-fast Iterators fail as soon as they realized that structure of Collection has been changed since
iteration has begun. Structural changes means adding, removing or updating any element from
collection while one thread is Iterating over that collection. fail-fast behavior is implemented by
keeping a modification count and if iteration thread realizes the change in modification count it
throws ConcurrentModificationException.
Iterators returned by most of JDK1.4 collection are fail-fast including Vector, ArrayList, HashSet etc
--
fail-safe iterator doesn't throw any Exception if Collection is modified structurally
while one thread is Iterating over it because they work on clone of Collection instead of original
collection and thats why they are called as fail-safe iterator. Iterator of CopyOnWriteArrayList is an
example of fail-safe Iterator also iterator written by ConcurrentHashMap keySet is also fail-safe iterator
and never throw ConcurrentModificationException in Java.

project management triangle
aka triple constraint. cost, scope, time
pick any two: fast, good, cheap

buffer overflow
a program, when writing data to a buffer, overruns the buffer's boundary and overwrites
adjacent memory. C/C++ has no built-in protection against buffer overflow.
they do not check that data written to a buffer is within the boundaries of that buffer.

segmentation fault: means a program tries to access a memory location that it
is not allowed to access.
---
Segmentation Fault (also known as SIGSEGV and is usually signal 11):
  You can get this message when the program tries to write/read outside the memory allocated for it or when writing memory which can only be read.
Bus Error (also known as SIGBUS and is usually signal 10) -
  You can encounter this signal error when an invalid pointer is dereferenced i.e when you try to dereference an uninitialised pointer. It is similar to SIGSEGV but the difference is that SIGSEGV indicates an invalid access to valid memory, while SIGBUS indicates an access to an invalid address.

too far in the future

semantic web: attach meaning to the services and information on the web.

ordered array: fast searching, slow insertion/deletion
linked list: slow searching, fast insertion/deletion
tree: fast searching and fast insertion/deletion: O(logN)

spatial locality
1. data has spatial locality if it is located close together in memory.
2. data/instruction close to recently accessed data/instruction are likely to be
accessed in the near future.
3. the use of data/resource within relatively close storage locations.
4. the use of data that are located close to one another.
5. resources that are near one another are likely to be accessed close together in time.
temporal locality
1. data has temporal locality if it is accessed at roughly the same time. (or recently accessed)
2. recently accessed data/instruction are likely to be accessed again in the near future.
3. the reuse of data/resource within a short time.
locality of reference = spatial locality and temporal locality
--> refers to the same data or related storage locations being frequently accessed.
--> Programs tend to reuse data and instructions they have used recently.

tuple: a fixed-length set of objects
tuple: an ordered list of elements (like an ordered collection)

In OOP, need to handle this problem: an object can have several different roles.
C++: multiple inheritance
Java: interface
Ruby: mixin
Scala: trait

dark moon: moon is directly between the sun and the earth. moon is invisible from earth.
new moon: first crescent (depends on location of observer).
beginning of islamic, hebrew, hindu calendar month: new moon
beginning of chinese calendar month: dark moon
dark moon comes before new moon. chinese 1 comes before islamic 1.

functional programming
1. programs are made up of functions
2. a function always returns a value
3. a function given the same input will always return the same value
3. functional programs avoid changing state or mutating data (immutability).
--> functioinal programming: emphasizes the evaluation of function and immutability
--> functional programming is programming without assignment statements.
best practices:
a function must take at least one argument
a function must return data or another function
no loop
---
how you divide up a problem depends on how you put the solutions together.
FP: provides two new kinds of glue: higher-order functions and lazy evaluation.
allow greatly improved modularization
functions that are indivisible in conventional languages can be expressed as a
combination of functions.
lazy evaluation: g(f(x)): g() and f() are run in synchronization.
f() is only started when g() tries to read some input, and only run long
enough to deliver the output g() is trying to read. Then f() is suspended and g() is run
until it tries to read another input. f() is terminated as soon as g() is terminated.
f() can be a non-terminating function.
--> delaying execution until the value is needed

list comprehension:
a syntactic construct for creating a list based on existing lists.
Smalltalk example: ((1 to: 100) select: [:x|x*x>3]) collect: [:x|2*x]
--> follows the form of set comprehension:
a mathematical notation for describing a set by stating the properties that its members must satisfy.

call with current continuation: (call/cc)
(call/cc F): takes one argument F
F is expected to be a function that takes one argument C.
C represents the current continuation. C is a function that takes one argument.
Invoking C in F will force execution of the program to jump to the point where call/cc was called.
The argument to C is the return value of call/cc.
---
continuation: allow you to save the execution state of your program and later return to the same point.

--> call-with-current-continuation allows you to save the state of a computation, package it up as a data structure, and go off and do something else. Whenever you want, you can restore the old saved state, abandoning the current computation and and picking up where the saved computation left off.
--> allows you to implement advanced control structures such as backtracking, cooperative multitasking, and custom exception-handling.

backtracking: a general algorithm for finding all (or some) solutions to some computational problem, that
incrementally builds candidates to the solutions, and abandons each partial candidate c ("backtracks")
as soon as it determines that c cannot possibly be completed to a valid solution
--> an attempt to re-satisfy the last satisfied goal when the next goal fails.

--> Securitization is the financial practice of pooling various types of contractual debt such as residential mortgages, commercial mortgages, auto loans or credit card debt obligations and selling said consolidated debt as bonds, pass-through securities, or Collateralized mortgage obligation (CMOs), to various investors. The principal and interest on the debt, underlying the security, is paid back to the various investors regularly.
--> An asset-backed security is a security whose value and income payments are derived from and collateralized (or "backed") by a specified pool of underlying assets. The pool of assets is typically a group of small and illiquid assets that are unable to be sold individually. Pooling the assets into financial instruments allows them to be sold to general investors, a process called securitization, and allows the risk of investing in the underlying assets to be diversified because each security will represent a fraction of the total value of the diverse pool of underlying assets.
--> a mortgage-backed security (MBS) is an asset-backed security that represents a claim on the cash flows from mortgage loans through a process known as securitization.

pangram: a sentence that uses every letter of the alphabet at least once.
e.g. the quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog.

deadlock: a situation in which two or more competing actions are each waiting for the other to finish, and
thus neither ever does. processes are stuck due to circular dependencies.
livelock: similar to a deadlock, except that the states of the processes involved in the livelock constantly
change with regard to one another, none progressing
--
Deadlock describes a situation where two or more threads are blocked forever, waiting for each other.
--
Starvation describes a situation where a thread is unable to gain regular access to shared resources and is unable to make progress.

programming languages by year of creation:
1957: Fortran
1958: Lisp
1959: Cobol
1964: Basic
1966: ISWIM (If you See What I Mean)
1970: Pascal
1972: Smalltalk, C, Prolog
1973: ML
1975: Scheme
1983: C++
1984: Common Lisp, Standard ML
1985: Caml (Categorical Abstract Machine Language)
1986: Objective-C
1987: Perl, Erlang
1988: Tcl
1990: Haskell
1991: Python
1995: Java, PHP, Ruby
1996: JavaScript, Ocaml
2000: C#
2002: Io
2003: Scala
2004: Groovy
2005: F#
2007: Clojure

autotroph: An organism capable of synthesizing its own food from inorganic substances, using light or chemical energy. Green plants, algae, and certain bacteria are autotrophs.
heterotroph: An organism that cannot synthesize its own food and is dependent on complex organic substances for nutrition.

erlang atom : self-indicating identifiers
can I apply this description to smalltalk/ruby symbol or lisp keyword?

force majeure: superior force; unexpected or uncontrollable event

closure: anonymous functions with closed scope
it carries around the context in which it was defined.
a block can reference the variables that were in scope when it was defined,
even if those variables later go out of scope.

jumbo loan: a loan above the conforming loan limit.
the conforming loan limit is set by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which are
government-sponsored enterprises that purchase residential mortgages from
banks, allowing them to free up money to lend more mortgages.

aspect-oriented programming (AOP): allow separation of cross-cutting concerns (logging, transaction,
security, persistence). In OO code, a behavior is often repeated in multiple classes or spread
across multiple methods. AOP allows you to abstract this behavior and apply it to classes and methods
without using inheritance.

homoiconicity: Expressing the language in its own data structures
code is represented using its own data structure
Lisp code, its textual representation, is written in the same format as its internal representation (AST). Such a property is called homoiconicity,

An Armstrong number is an n-digit number that is equal to the sum of the nth powers of its individual digits.
example: 371 = 3**3 + 7**3 + 1**3

quine: a program that prints its own source code.

liar paradox: "this sentence is false"
Quine's paradox: "Yields falsehood when preceded by its quotation" yields falsehood when preceded by its quotation.

hygienic marco: means that variables defined within macro code are renamed, or subject to some other transformation, in order to avoid name clashes with the code surrounding the macro call site.

knapsack problem: a problem in combinatorial optimization: Given a set of items, each with a weight and a value, determine the number of each item to include in a collection so that the total weight is less than or equal to a given limit and the total value is as large as possible. It derives its name from the problem faced by someone who is constrained by a fixed-size knapsack and must fill it with the most valuable items.
--> Combinatorial optimization is a topic that consists of finding an optimal object from a finite set of objects.
--> we have a knapsack with a limited capacity. we have a number of items, each of which has a weight
and a value. the problem is put one or more items in the knapsack such that the we have the maximum value
without exceeding the capacity of the knapsack.
====
knapsack problem: Given a set of items, each with a weight and a value, determine the number of each item to
include in a collection so that the total weight is less than or equal to a given limit and the
total value is as large as possible.
example: given a set of boxes with a weight and an amount of money, which boxes should be chosen to
maximize the amount of money while still keeping the overall weight under or equal to 15 kg?

clojure: persistent data structure: means that the data structure is immutable, yet has efficient
non-destructive operations that correspond to the operations on the classical hash table. The word
efficient means on par with their mutating counterparts.

time complexity: quantifies the amount of time taken by an algorithm.
--> quantifies the running time of an algorithm based on the size of the dataset.
commonly expressed using the big O notation.
constant time: O(1)
linear time: O(n)
logarithmic time: O(log n)
polynomial time: O(n^k). quicksort: O(n^2). Most familiar mathematical operations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division, as well as computing square roots, powers, and logarithms, can be performed in polynomial time. Computing the digits of most interesting mathematical constants, including pi and e, can also be done in polynomial time.
--> Non-deterministic turing machine: A nondeterministic Turing machine is a "parallel" Turing machine that can take many computational paths simultaneously, with the restriction that the parallel Turing machines cannot communicate.
--> NP-problem: A problem is assigned to the NP (nondeterministic polynomial time) class if it is solvable in polynomial time by a nondeterministic Turing machine.
--> NP-hard: A problem is NP-hard if an algorithm for solving it can be translated into one for solving any NP-problem (nondeterministic polynomial time) problem. NP-hard therefore means "at least as hard as any NP-problem," although it might, in fact, be harder.
--> NP-Complete : A problem which is both NP (verifiable in nondeterministic polynomial time) and NP-hard (any NP-problem can be translated into this problem). Examples of NP-hard problems include the Hamiltonian cycle and traveling salesman problems.
Big O: upper bound, worst case
Big Omega: lower bound, best case
Big Theta: when best and worst case are the same, can use Big Theta
these are called asymptotic functions: because they capture the growth of a function
as its argument asymptotically approaches infinity.

in-place algorithm: uses a small constant amount of extra space, usually overwrites the input space.

python generator: a function that generates a sequence of values instead of a single value.
--> a function that stops in the middle, returns a value to the caller, and later on
picks up where it left off.
Generators decouple iteration from the code that uses the results of the iteration
The function only executes on next()
yield produces a value, but suspends the function
Function resumes on next call to next()
One of the most powerful applications of generators is setting up processing pipelines
When you call a coroutine, nothing happens
They only run in response to next() and send()
Generators produce values
Coroutines tend to consume values

Tell me how you measure me and I will tell you how I behave.

off-side rule: the scope of a block is indicated by its indentation

interview stuff:
most challenging
what you learned
most interesting
hardest bug
enjoyed most
conflicts with teammates

compiler: translate source code into machine language
linker: combines multiple object files into an an executable program.

abstract data type: defined by the operations that may be performed on it and its implementation is hidden.

Von Neumann architexture: memory that contains data and instructions; and a processing unit.
processing unit takes instruction and data out of memory, manipuate the data and store the result
to some memory cells. Repeat.
two characteristics: sequential step-by-step execution of instructions and mutable data.

orthogonality: means that any composition of the basic primitives should be allowed. This would
achive the greatest degree of generality.

Dunning-Kruger effect: is a cognitive bias in which unskilled individuals suffer from illusory superiority, mistakenly rating their ability much higher than average.
--> the miscalibration of the incompetent stems from an error about the self, whereas the miscalibration of the highly competent stems from an error about others
--> when incompetent people not only fail to realise their incompetence, but consider themselves much more competent than everyone else. Basically, they're too stupid to know that they're stupid.
--> the incompetent overestimate their ability.
--> the competent underestimate their ability.
--> a little knowledge is a dangerous thing

In a web browser, an access key or accesskey allows a computer user immediately to jump to a specific part of a web page via the keyboard.

first sale doctrine: the purchaser of a copyrighted work can resell or give away or destroy the copyrighted work
without the permission of the copyright owner.

currying: converting a function that takes multiple arguments into a chain of functions that take one argument.
currying vs partial application
--> Where partial application takes a function and from it builds a function which takes fewer arguments, currying builds functions which take multiple arguments by composition of functions which each take a single argument.

Java web application: model 1 vs model 2 (two usage patterns for JSP pages)
Model 1: logic is contained within JSP pages.
-->
Model 2 JSP programming
1. requests from browsers are passed to the controller (servlet)
2. controller obtains the correct content for display (from model (POJO, beans))
3. controller then passes content to a view (JSP pages)
4. view renders the content
In model 2, logic is in servlet. JSP only renders the content.
--> Model 1 and Model 2 simply refer to the absence or presence (respectively) of a controller servlet that dispatches requests from the client tier and selects views.

association list: a list where each node is a key-value pair. like a dictionary. search is O(n)

setuid, setgid: allow users to execute a program with the access rights of the program's owner or group.
Normally, the permission rights of a process is the same as the user who executes the process.
setuid/setgid allow users to execute programs with temporarily elevated privileges in order to
perform a specific task.
Needed for tasks that require higher privileges.
The user who executes the program gains the privileges of the user who owns the program.
-->
Setting the setgid permission on a directory (chmod g+s) causes new files and subdirectories created within it to
inherit its group ID, rather than the primary group ID of the user who created the file (the owner ID is never
affected, only the group ID). Newly created subdirectories inherit the setgid bit.
---
unix: setuid bit, setgid bit, sticky bit
sticky bit: chmod +x <dirname> : a file in the dir can only be deleted/renamed by the owner of the file,
or the owner of the directory, or superuser
---
sticky bit: set on a directory.
if it is set, the only user who can rename or remove any file is the file's owner, the directory's owner,
or superuser.
--> Normally, if you have write permssion for a directory, you can rename or remove files not owned by you.

federated database:
a system in which several databases appear to function as a single entity. Each component database in the system is completely self-sustained and functional. When an application queries the federated database, the system figures out which of its component databases contains the data being requested and passes the request to it. Federated databases can be thought of as database virtualization in much the same way that storage virtualization makes several drives appear as one.

x window primary selection: highlight text with left mouse button, paste with middle button
x window clipboard: do "Edit/copy" and "Edit/paste" explicitly.

lisp: non-terminating dispatching macro character. example: #
a character that has an associated table that specifies the function to be called for each character
that follows the dispatching macro character.
non-terminating: being treated as a constituent character when it appears in the middle of an extended token.

-- network gateway
A gateway is a network point that acts as an entrance to another network. On the Internet, a node or stopping point can be either a gateway node or a host (end-point) node. Both the computers of Internet users and the computers that serve pages to users are host nodes. The computers that control traffic within your company's network or at your local Internet service provider (ISP) are gateway nodes.
In the network for an enterprise, a computer server acting as a gateway node is often also acting as a proxy server and a firewall server. A gateway is often associated with both a router, which knows where to direct a given packet of data that arrives at the gateway, and a switch, which furnishes the actual path in and out of the gateway for a given packet.
proxy server: receive a request from a computer, request a page from a server on the internet,
then forwards it to the user.
firewall: prevent outsiders from accessing a private network and control what outside resources
firewall: a barrier that controls what kind of data comes into and out of your network
users can access
-- SOCKS
a protocol that a proxy server can use to accept requests from client users in a company's network so that it can forward them across the Internet.
is a network protocol designed to allow clients to communicate with Internet servers through firewalls.

CMS vs RDBMS (like car vs diesel engine)
CMS is a full-blown system allowing end-users to view and modify content (articles, media, etc.) in an easy way.
RDBMS  is a back-end software used to store low-level data.
CMSes use RDBMSes (like MySQL)

have no truck with sth
to have nothing to do with something, refuse to become involved with something
 to want nothing to do with sth

hard link: cannot create a hard link to a directory. cannot cross a file system.

OSI model: a conceptual model that defines the internal functions of a communications system by partitioning
it into seven layers. think of the layers as an assembly line. At each layer, certain things happen
to the data that prepare it for the next layer.
Application set: layer 5,6,7. transport set: 1,2,3,4
Layer 7 (application): this layer interacts with the OS.
layer 6 (presentation): Layer 6 takes the data provided by the Application layer and converts it into a standard format that the other layers can understand
layer 5 (session): Layer 5 establishes, maintains and ends communication with the receiving device.
layer 4 (transport): This layer maintains flow control of data and provides for error checking and recovery of data between the devices. Flow control means that the Transport layer looks to see if data is coming from more than one application and integrates each application's data into a single stream for the physical network.
layer 3 (network): The way that the data will be sent to the recipient device is determined in this layer. Logical protocols, routing and addressing are handled here.
layer 2 (data link): In this layer, the appropriate physical protocol is assigned to the data. Also, the type of network and the packet sequencing is defined.
layer 1 (physical): This is the level of the actual hardware. It defines the physical characteristics of the network such as connections, voltage levels and timing.

TCP/IP:
Layer 1: Network Interface - This layer combines the Physical and Data layers and routes the data between devices on the same network. It also manages the exchange of data between the network and other devices.
Layer 2: Internet - This layer corresponds to the Network layer. The Internet Protocol (IP) uses the IP address, consisting of a Network Identifier and a Host Identifier, to determine the address of the device it is communicating with.
Layer 3: Transport - Corresponding to the OSI Transport layer, this is the part of the protocol stack where the Transport Control Protocol (TCP) can be found. TCP works by asking another device on the network if it is willing to accept information from the local device.
Layer 4: Application - Layer 4 combines the Session, Presentation and Application layers of the OSI model. Protocols for specific functions such as e-mail (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol, SMTP) and file transfer (File Transfer Protocol, FTP) reside at this level.

lisp reduce:
expect 2-arg function
e.g. (reduce 'func '(1 2 3)) ==> (func (func 1 2) 3)

endorsement: Signing a legal document in a legal capacity.
To endorse a promissory note as a third-party means the endorser guarantees payment in case the principal borrower defaults.

drawer
writer of a bill of exchange (check, draft, letter of credit, etc.) who directs the drawee (such as a bank) to
pay the stated amount to a third party (the payee).

third-party check
If somebody gives you a check, and you turn it over and write "pay to the order of ____" in order to give it to a
third party, that makes it a third party check. An example would be using your paycheck to pay for your groceries.

fold, aka reduce, inject (smalltalk)
example list: [1,2,3], function: +
left fold: (1+2)+3
right fold: 1+(2+3)

oracle: RLS (row-level security), VPD (virtual private database)
restrict access to rows and columns based on a security policy

interior gateway protocol (IGP):
a protocol for exchanging routing information between gateways (hosts with routers) within an autonomous network (for example, a system of corporate local area networks). two types: Routing Information Protocol (RIP) and the Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) protocol.

exterior gateway protocol (EGP):
a protocol for exchanging routing information between two neighbor gateway hosts (each with its own router) in a network of autonomous systems. now replaced by border gateway way protocol (BGP).

looking glass server:
allows you to see routing info.
a piece of software running as a CGI on an ISP's webserver that allows external users to get a look at routing and network behavior within their network.
looking glass server:
allows you to see routing info.
a piece of software running as a CGI on an ISP's webserver that allows external users to get a look at routing and network behavior within their network.
example: http://lg.pch.net/cgi-bin/lgform.cgi

Little's law
The long-term average number of customers in a stable system L is equal to the long-term average effective
arrival rate, R, multiplied by the average time a customer spends in the system, W; or expressed
algebraically: L = RW.

It does exactly what it says on the tin

discretionary access control (DAC)
a means of restricting access to objects based on the identity of subjects and/or groups to which they belong.
the subject can change the permissions of objects.
example: unix user and group id
--> Mandatory Access Control (MAC) is a type of access control in which only the administrator manages the access controls. The administrator defines the usage and access policy, which cannot be modified or changed by users, and the policy will indicate who has access to which programs and files.
--> mandatory access control (MAC) refers to a type of access control by which the operating system constrains the ability of a subject or initiator to access or generally perform some sort of operation on an object or target.
--> Role-based access control (RBAC) is a method of regulating access to computer or network resources based on the roles of individual users within an enterprise. In this context, access is the ability of an individual user to perform a specific task, such as view, create, or modify a file. Roles are defined according to job competency, authority, and responsibility within the enterprise.

autoboxing: automatic conversion from primitive types to object wrapper classes.
example: Character ch = 'a';
Converting an object of a wrapper type (Integer) to its corresponding primitive (int) value is called unboxing.

NE monsoon (Oct-Mar) , SW monsoon (Apr-Sep)

stream: an ordered sequence of bytes of indeterminate length.
stream: a source or sink of data (character or byte)

one's complement: a value obtained by inverting all the bits in a binary number.
two's complement: one's complement + one

firmware: refers to the program and data stored in non-volatile memory.
it is used to control a device.

Modulation is the process of modifying one or more parameters of a base communications signal such as amplitude, frequency, phase, angle or simply the presence and absence of the signal, for the purpose of encoding information into the signal and transmitting it to a destination.

baseband: means a single signal is transmitted.
broadband: transmitting multiple signals.

A packet and a frame are both packages of data moving through a network.
frame: exists at Layer 2 of the OSI Model. (data link layer)
packet:  exists at Layer 3 of the OSI Model, (network layer)

store-and-forward:  information is sent to an intermediate station where it is kept and sent at a later time to the final destination or to another intermediate station.
cut-through: method for packet switching systems, wherein the switch starts forwarding a frame (or packet) before the whole frame has been received, normally as soon as the destination address is processed

liveness: A concurrent application's ability to execute in a timely manner is known as its liveness.

crossing the memory barrier (java):
the copying of data from local memory (registers/cache) to main memory and vice versa.
when? synchronized, volatile,

java synchronized:
When one thread is executing a synchronized method for an object, all other threads that invoke synchronized methods for the same object block (suspend execution) until the first thread is done with the object.
--when a synchronized method exits, it automatically establishes a happens-before relationship with any subsequent invocation of a synchronized method for the same object. This guarantees that changes to the state of the object are visible to all threads.
----
happens-before relationship:
is a guarantee that memory written to by statement A is visible to statement B, that is, that statement A completes its write before statement B starts its read
Memory consistency errors occur when different threads have inconsistent views of what should be the same data.
---
a guarantee that state changes made by one thread is visible to all threads.
---
happened-before relationship  is a guarantee that memory written to by statement A is visible to statement B,
that is, that statement A completes its write before statement B starts its read
---
In concurrent programming, a monitor is a synchronization construct that allows threads to have both mutual exclusion and the ability to wait (block) for a certain condition to become true. Monitors also have a mechanism for signalling other threads that their condition has been met.
--
monitor : a construct that allows threads to gain exclusive access to an object. it also allows threads to wait (block) for a certain
condition and to signal other threads that the condition has been met.
 supports two kinds of thread synchronization: mutual exclusion and cooperation
----
Synchronization is built around an internal entity known as the intrinsic lock or monitor lock.
Every object has an intrinsic lock associated with it. By convention, a thread that needs exclusive and consistent access to an object's fields has to acquire the object's intrinsic lock before accessing them, and then release the intrinsic lock when it's done with them.
--
When a thread invokes a synchronized method, it automatically acquires the intrinsic lock for that method's object and releases it when the method returns.
---
Allowing a thread to acquire the same lock more than once enables reentrant synchronization.
-- java synchronized keyword:
The memory representation in different threads of the object being locked is being synchronized.
after the synchronized block is completed, all changes made to the locked object are flushed
to main memory before the lock is released.
before the synchronized block is entered, all changes to the locked object are read in from main
memory.
--> volatile keyword:
the value seen by a thread is always re-read from main memory before use.
any changed value is flushed to main memory before the instruction is completed.
--
The java.lang.Thread.join() method waits for this thread to die.
the Java wait/notify mechanism is essentially a way to communicate between threads.
wait(): release the lock and the thread is suspended.
wait() is used when you are waiting for some condition that is under the control of another thread.
Once notification arrives, the JVM wakens the waiting thread, which then tries to reacquire the lock.
wait() and notify() must be called from a synchronized context to avoid a potential race condition:
the notify() comes before the wait(). and the waiting thread waits forever.
race condition detail:
Thread A tests a condition and discovers it must wait.
Thread B sets the condition and calls notify() to inform A to resume execution. Because A is not yet waiting, nothing happens.
Thread A waits, by calling wait().
Because of the prior notify() call, A waits indefinitely.
---> wait() and notify() compete for the same lock.
--
synchronized method: acquire the monitor for the method's object.
static synchronized method: acquire the monitor for the Class object.

je ne sais quoi: a quality that is difficult to express
je ne sais quoi: I don't know what
An intangible quality that makes something distinctive or attractive.
She has a certain je ne sais quoi about her.

SSDP (Simple Service Discovery Protocol)
is a network protocol based on the Internet Protocol Suite for advertisement and discovery of network services and presence information.
SSDP is the basis of the discovery protocol of Universal Plug and Play and is intended for use in residential or small office environments.
Universal Plug and Play (UPnP) is a set of networking protocols that permits networked devices, such as personal computers, printers, Internet gateways, Wi-Fi access points and mobile devices to seamlessly discover each other's presence on the network and establish functional network services for data sharing, communications, and entertainment.

Expose EJB 3 as web services
exposing stateless session beans as Web services. Java-based clients may access the Web services through JAX-RPC API, while non-Java clients through SOAP 1.1.

salt:
In cryptography, a salt is random data that are used as an additional input to a one-way function that hashes a password or passphrase.
nonce is an arbitrary number used only once in a cryptographic communication.
A rainbow table is a large list of pre-computed hashes for commonly-used passwords.

AES (advanced encryption standard):
an encryption algorithm used by the US government for  sensitive but unclassified material.
a replacement for the Data Encryption Standard (DES)
is a symmetric algorithm (same key for encryption and decryption)

DSA (Digital Signature Algorithm)
a US government standard for digital signatures.
RSA : asymmetric algorithm: a public key and a private key

CAPTCHA:
Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart",
a type of challenge-response test used in computing to determine whether or not the user is human

rainbow table:
a list of pre-computed hashes for commonly used passwords.

prime factors of a positive integer are the prime numbers that divide that integer exactly.
The process of finding these numbers is called integer factorization, or prime factorization.

one-time pad
In cryptography, a one-time pad is a system in which a private key generated randomly is used only once to encrypt a message that is then decrypted by the receiver using a matching one-time pad and key.
--
work by adding a set of random digits to a message thereby creating a ciphertext that looks random to any eavesdropper. The receiver decodes the message by taking away the same set of random digits to reveal the original message.
--
 a crypto algorithm where plaintext is combined with a random key. It is the only known method to perform mathematically unbreakable encryption.
---
requirements:
The key is at least as long as the message or data that must be encrypted.
The key is truly random (not generated by a simple computer function or such)
Key and plaintext are calculated modulo 10 (digits), modulo 26 (letters) or modulo 2 (binary)
Each key is used only once, and both sender and receiver must destroy their key after use.
There should only be two copies of the key: one for the sender and one for the receiver (some exceptions exist for multiple receivers)

transaction isolation level
Serializable, Repeatable read (phantom read problem), Read committed (non-repeatable read problem),
Read uncommitted (dirty read problem)
--
non-repeatable read: during a transaction, you get different results when you read a row multiple times.
phantom read: during a transaction, you get different result sets when you execute a query multiple times.
===
oracle isolation level:
Read Committed Isolation Level :  every query executed by a transaction sees only data committed before the query
began.
Serializable Isolation Level: a transaction sees only changes committed at the time the transaction began.
A serializable transaction operates in an environment that makes it appear as if no other users were modifying data in the database.

certificate authority, or certification authority (CA), is an entity that issues digital certificates.
a root certificate is either an unsigned public key certificate or a self-signed certificate that identifies the Root Certificate Authority (CA)
Digital certificates are verified using a chain of trust. The trust anchor for the digital certificate is the Root Certificate Authority (CA).

public key certificate
an electronic document that uses a digital signature to bind a public key with an identity
--> The certificate can be used to verify that a public key belongs to an individual.
In a typical public key infrastructure (PKI) scheme, the signature will be of a certificate authority (CA). In a web of trust scheme, the signature is of either the user (a self-signed certificate) or other users ("endorsements"). In either case, the signatures on a certificate are attestations by the certificate signer that the identity information and the public key belong together.
--
digital signature:
demonstrate the authenticity of a message.  A valid digital signature gives a recipient reason to believe that the message was created by a known sender, such that the sender cannot deny having sent the message (authentication and non-repudiation) and that the message was not altered in transit (integrity).
-- first : generate private key and a corresponding public key.
-- A signing algorithm that, given a message and a private key, produces a signature.
-- A signature verifying algorithm that, given a message, public key and a signature, either accepts or rejects the message's claim to authenticity.

A trapdoor function is a function that is easy to compute in one direction, yet believed to be difficult to compute in the opposite direction (finding its inverse) without special information, called the "trapdoor". Trapdoor functions are widely used in cryptography.

ByteArray stream: allow you to use stream methods to manipulate data in byte arrays.
Data stream: to read write multi-byte data (int, long, float, etc). a type of filter stream

twin prime: a prime number that differs from another by two: 41, 43.
Goldbach's conjecture: Every even integer greater than 2 can be expressed as the sum of two primes.

virtualization types:
1. h/w emulation: VM emulates complete h/w. unmodified guest OS can be run. Bochs, QEMU
   -> Represents a computer hardware environment in software so that multiple operating systems can be installed on a single computer.
2. full virtualization: VM emulates "enought" h/w to allow an unmodified guest OS to run.
   use hypervisor: VMWare workstation
3. para-virtualization: modified guests (use hypervisor)
   -> A thin software layer that coordinates access from multiple operating systems to underlying hardware.
   -> the guest servers are aware of one another?
4. OS virtualization: OpenVX, Linux-Vserver
type 1 hypervisor (bare metal): h/w -> hypervisor -> OSs : VMWare ESX, Xen, KVM, Microsoft Hyper-V
type 2: h/w -> OS -> hypervisor -> OSs (VMWare workstation, Virtualbox)
type 1 hypervisor: paravirtualization (modified guests) , h/w-assited virtualization (unmodified guests)

greedy match: consumes as much of a string as possible, and then backtracks to attempt to find a match.
lazy match: consumers a subject string one char at a time. does not backtrack
possesive match: consumes the entire string in one fell swoop. does not backtrack
greedy match: take one big bite and spits out one small piece at a time.

A cluster is the smallest logical amount of disk space that can be allocated to hold a file.

weak typing: a variable can be interpreted as something else (C/C++)

PHP: a markup language designed to be embedded into HTML

-->
needs I can meet
problems I can solve
challenges I can rise up
-->

Conway's law: the architecture of the system matches the organization of the team.

Dietzlers Law for Access
--> the "80-10-10 Rule" for Access
you can get 80% of what the customer wants in a remarkably short time. The next 10% of what they want is possible, but takes a lot of effort. The last 10% is flat out impossible because you can't get "underneath" all the tooling and frameworks.

kernel: the part of an O/S that communicates directly to the h/w.
OS : kernel + utilities (an ensemble of s/w)

A system call is a mechanism that is used by the application program to request a service from the operating system.

java enum: enum.class.getName() -> com.cheok.EnumTest$Day
java array: array.getClass().getName() -> [Ljava.lang.String;

PrintStream vs PrintWriter:
PrintStream converts objects to string.
PrintWriter is better in the sense that it handles multi-byte characters properly.

data mining:
the extraction of implicit, previously unknown, and potentially useful info from data.

fork (file system):
File system forks are associated with Apple's Hierarchical File System (HFS). Apple's HFS, and the original Apple Macintosh file system MFS, allowed a file system object to have several kinds of forks: a data fork, a resource fork, and multiple named forks.
NTFS file system fork is known as alternate data stream.
example to create: echo "hidden data" > sample.txt:secret.txt
--> to view: notepad sample.txt:secret.txt
--> dir /r -> show alternate data streams

full text search that match plurals:
--> you want apples and apple or daisies and daisy to match
--> enable stemming: store the base form of the word
--> use Snowball Analyzer with English Stemmer (lucene)
--> has to do stemming on both indexing and querying
--> The important rule for Lucene is: Use the same Analyzer for indexing and query parsing

black box testing:  vulnerability assessment, dynamic testing, run-time analysis
white box testing: source code review, static analysis

SAST: Static Analysis Software Testing
DAST: dynamic Analysis Software Testing

Predictable Resource Location:
 an attack technique used to uncover hidden web site content and functionality by guessing.
example, q3 report: http://host/2013q3.html, then guess q4: http://host/2013q4.html

Distilling the Essence of Your Value Proposition

Manichean
Of or relating to a dualistic view of the world, dividing things into either good or evil, light or dark, black or white, involving no shades of gray.

What you do today will be the reputation you have tomorrow

java.io.File: represent filenames, not actual files.

java char: a UTF-16 code point. most of the time, same as a unicode character.
once in a while, need 2 java chars to represent a unicode character.

Unicode: first 256 : ISO-8859-1

latency: the elapsed time taken to process a work unit
utilization: the % of available resources that are used to handle work units.
efficiency: throughput divided by the resources used.
capacity: the number of work units that can be in flight through the system at any time.

chrestomathy: A selection of literary passages

quod est necessarium est licitum: what is necessary is lawful

BEDMAS: brackets, exponents, division, multiplication, addition, subtraction: the order of arithmetic operations

SQL: schema on write
hadoop: schema on read

hadoop:
HDFS nodes: NameNode (1), DataNode (many)
MapReduce nodes: JobTracker (1), TaskTracker (many)

Big data:
velocity: the rate of incoming data
variety
volume
--
big data is right-time business insight and decision making at extreme scale.
velocity, variety, volume, value, veracity
it is about the insights that data analytics provide in supporting data-driven decision-making

software-defined networking (SDN)
3 planes of operation:
management plane: SNMP
control plane: routing , OSPF (open shortest path first): a router protocol
data plane:

Switching fabric is the combination of hardware and software that moves data coming in to a network node out by the correct port (door) to the next node in the network.

the primary function of tread on a tire is to divert water from beneath the tire to improve traction and avoid hydroplaning on wet roads

detention relates to the equipment
demurrage relates to the cargo
detention is the penalty you pay when you return the container too late
demurrage is the penalty you pay when the carrier has to keep your cargo for too long.

OLAP
a category of software tools that provides analysis of data stored in a database. OLAP tools enable users to analyze different dimensions of multidimensional data. For example, it provides time series and trend analysis views. OLAP often is used in data mining.
--> refer to multi-dimensional analysis of consolidated enterprise data.

Live set: The set of active objects retained by the application at any point in time

ACID: consistency: transactions violating consistency constraints are rejected/aborted

two phase commit variants: presumed-nothing, presumed-abort, presumed-commit
XA txn: presumed-abort 2PC

key-value db vs document db:
key-value db: a big hash table, low data complexity
document db: the db understands the documents in the db. the document contents can be indexed for
better querying and search

operational data store: store data collected from users, systems.
usually don't do reporting from operational data store.
An operational data store (or "ODS") is a database designed to integrate data from multiple sources for additional operations on the data. The data is then passed back to operational systems for further operations and to the data warehouse for reporting.

working set: a set of memory pages that a process requires in a given time period

Oracle:
SCN: system change number: A database ordering primitive. The value of an SCN is the logical point in time at which changes are made to a database.
savepoint: A named SCN in a transaction to which the transaction can be rolled back.
schema: A named collection of database objects, including logical structures such as tables and indexes. A schema has the name of the database user who owns it.

O(1): order 1, constant time
O(n): order N, linear time
O(N^2): order N squared, quadratic time
O(logN): order log N, logarithm time
O(N!): factorial time

unit test: set up data to support the test.
test fixture: a known state for running tests. also mean all the things that must be in place in order to run a test.
examples of fixtures:
Loading a database with a specific, known set of data
Erasing a hard disk and installing a known clean operating system installation
Copying a specific known set of files
Preparation of input data and set-up/creation of fake or mock objects
--> end of examples

memory-mapped IO: uses the same address bus to address both memory and I/O devices
so a memory address can refer to physical RAM or the memory of the I/O device

memory-mapped file I/O: map a file to virtual memory. can access a file as if it were in main memory.
mmap: memory-mapped file I/O

disk/page cache: the cache of disk pages kept by the operating systems, stored in unused main memory

scalar: one unit of data (vs compound)

clojure: the separation of mutable identity from immutable state value
clojure: identity is mutable, state is immutable
keyword: ref: represents a mutable identity with an immutable value.

DSL: a language targeted at a specific problem.
contains syntax and semantics that model concepts at the same level of abstraction as
the problem domain.
a communication medium between developers and business practitioners.

thread: a flow of execution

SQL injection: an attack where the attacker inserts an SQL statement into an entry field for execution.
cross-site scripting: an attack where the attacker inserts client-side script into a web page.
The underlying problem is that many Web pages display input that is not validated. If input is not validated, malicious script can be embedded within the input. If a server-side script then displays this non-validated input, the script runs on the browser as though the trusted site generated it.

histogram: used to show distributions of variables while bar charts are used to compare variables
 it does not make sense to rearrange the bars of a histogram.
Histograms plot binned quantitative data while bar charts plot categorical data.

demand paging:  is a type of swapping in which pages of data are not copied from disk to RAM until they are needed

java: instanceof , isAssignableFrom
instanceof -> if true, can be cast to the class
class Parent {
  String name;
}

class Child extends Parent {
  String name2;
}
Child c = new Child();
c instanceof Child -> true
c instanceof Parent -> true
Parent p = new Parent();
p instanceof Parent -> true
p instanceof Child -> false
Parent.isAssignableFrom(Child) -> true
Child.isAssignableFrom(Parent) -> false

dry-heat cooking: cooking without moisture (includes deep-drying)
moist-heat cooking: cooking with liquid
broil and grill: cooking by direct heat. broil: heat from above, grill: heat from below.
bake and roast: cooking by ambient heat (surround food with hot air). uses indirect heat.
bake and roast: mostly the same. roast sometimes implies greater heat.
some uses roast for meat and uses bake for cakes
caramelization: the browning of carbohydrate such as sugar at temperatures of 300F or higher
Maillard reaction: the browning of protein in meat.

RDBMS: set-theory-based system implemented as two-dimensinal tables with rows and columns.
relation: table
tuple: row
attribute: column

window functions (oracle: analytic functions):
-> select dnd_record_id, avg(usage_days) over(partition by dnd_record_id), usage_days from shp_dnd_record;
window function results do not collapse results per group.

NoSQL:
columnar (column-oriented) db: data from a given column is stored together.
beneficial when you access many rows but only a few columns.
by contrast: in RDBMS , data from a given row is stored together

SQL injection: a vulnerability that occurs when a web app takes data from the users and include it
in an SQL statement without first validating the data.
cross-site scripting: a vulnerability that occurs when a web app takes data from the users and dynamically include it
in web pages without first validating the data.

MVC: a design pattern for implementing user interfaces. the controller accepts user input
and instructs the model/view to act according to that input.

REST: an architectural style where requests and responses represent the current state of
the system's resources.

Precision is the number of digits in a number. Scale is the number of digits to the right of the decimal point in a number. For example, the number 123.45 has a precision of 5 and a scale of 2.

removing car battery:
remove negative terminal first: if the tool comes into contact with the terminal and the car, no short circuit.
don't remove positive first: if the tool comes into contact with the terminal and the car: short circuit
installing car battery: opposite of removal: positive first.

ThreadLocal:
every thread that accesses a ThreadLocal variable via its get or set method has its own, independently initialized copy of the variable
ThreadLocal is a Java class which make instance variable of a class as local to a thread.

queue starvation:
Its a problem that can occur when scheduling tasks in priority queues if there are too many high priority tasks
so that lower priority tasks never get scheduled and are just waiting indefinitely. For example, lets say we
have three queues: high, medium and low priority. Tasks in the high priority one always get processed first.
Once this queue is empty the tasks from the medium priority queue get processed. Of course the tasks in the
low priority queue get processed only if the other two queues are empty. If there are too many high and
medium priority tasks incoming all the time so that the queues never get empty, then the low priority tasks
are not processed at all.
-- If high priority processes use up a lot of CPU time, lower priority processes may starve and be
postponed indefinitely. The situation where a process never gets scheduled to run is called starvation

API vs SPI (service provider interface)
API: API is the description of classes/interfaces/methods/... that you call and use to achieve a goal
SPI: SPI is the description of classes/interfaces/methods/... that you extend and implement to achieve a goal

REST principles:
addressable resource: items are accessible through URI
uniform interface: resources are accessed using the standard HTTP verbs: GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE
content negotiation: the client can request different representations of resources, using MIME types
stateless services
HATEOAS: hypermedia/hypertest as the engine of application state: hypertest should be used to find
your way thru the API. The response contains links.
GET: safe and idempotent
PUT and DELETE: idempotent but not safe
POST: not safe and not idempotent

assertion: used to validate that an expected condition is true.

AST: an in-memory representation of source code.
AST transformation: adding new code into source code before the final byte code is generated.

currying: transforming a multi-argument function into a chain of single-argument functions.

e: maximum possible result when you have 100% continous growth

William Blake: The road of excess leads to the palace of wisdom.
You never know what is enough until you know what is more than enough.

stunnel: a program that provides SSL/TLS tunneling. it can be used to create a secure
encrypted connections between programs that do not speak SSL/TLS natively.

grounding: The primary purpose of grounding is to reduce the risk of serious electric shock
from current leaking into uninsulated metal parts of an appliance

An Internet hosting service is a service that runs Internet servers, allowing organizations and individuals to serve content to the Internet.
A common kind of hosting is web hosting.
----
A virtual private server (VPS) is a virtual machine sold as a service by an Internet hosting service.
A VPS runs its own copy of an operating system, and customers have superuser-level access to that operating system instance, so they can install almost any software that runs on that OS. For many purposes they are functionally equivalent to a dedicated physical server,

wire-level protocol is a description of the format of the data that is sent across the network as a stream of octets

oracle execution plan:
access predicate: we are using something to "access" the data - we only "access" relevant data.
In general - you'll see "access" when using an index for example. We are using the index to "access" only the rows of interest.
filter predicate: we are getting more data then we need, and we filter it after we get it.

DB join:
A join combines the output from exactly two row sources, such as tables or views, and returns one row source. The returned row source is the data set.

A join condition compares two row sources using an expression. The join condition defines the relationship between the tables. If the statement does not specify a join condition, then the database performs a Cartesian join (see "Cartesian Joins"), matching every row in one table with every row in the other table.

In general, nested loops joins work best on small tables with indexes on the join conditions.

The optimizer always tries to put the smallest row source first, making it the driving table.
nested loop:
 The optimizer determines the driving table and designates it as the outer table.
 The other table is designated as the inner table.
 For every row in the outer table, Oracle accesses all the rows in the inner table. The outer loop is for every row in the outer table and the inner loop is for every row in the inner table. The outer loop appears before the inner loop in the execution plan, as follows:
--> fetch the result from one table and query the other table for each row from the first

NESTED LOOPS
  outer_loop
  inner_loop

hash join: A method for joining large data sets. The database uses the smaller of two data sets to build a hash table on the join key in memory. It then scans the larger data set, probing the hash table to find the joined rows.
The indexing strategy for a hash join is very different because there is no need to index the join columns. Only indexes for independent where predicates improve hash join performance.
--> build a hash table from the samller data set, then for each row in the larger data set, probe the hash table for a match.
Hash joins can not look up rows from the inner (probed) row source based on values retrieved from the outer (driving) row source, nested loops can.
When joining table A and B (A being driving table and B being the probed table), then hash joins can not perform index lookups into table B based on the values returned from table A

java volatile keyword: Reads and writes are atomic for all variables declared volatile (including long and double variables).
--> indicate the var will be modified by multiple threads.
--> the values will always be read from main memory.

Both CyclicBarrier and CountDownLatch are used to implement a scenario where one Thread waits for one or more Thread to complete there job before starts processing but there is one Difference between CountDownLatch and CyclicBarrier in Java which separates them apart and that is, you can not reuse same CountDownLatch instance once count reaches to zero and latch is open, on the other hand CyclicBarrier can be reused by resetting Barrier, Once barrier is broken.

switch: pole and throw
pole: the number of circuits controlled by the switch
throw: the number of connections that can be made by a pole
   SPST: two terminals
   SPDT: three terminals

Semantic Versioning
Given a version number MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH, increment the:
MAJOR version when you make incompatible API changes,
MINOR version when you add functionality in a backwards-compatible manner, and
PATCH version when you make backwards-compatible bug fixes.

fruit: the ripened ovary of flowering plant. fruits have seeds.
fruit: the mature ovary of a flower, containing the seed
vegetable is the part of a plant that is edible and does not have a role in the reproductive cycle.
green bean, cucumber, tomato, green pepper is a fruit
strawberry: an aggregate accessory fruit, not a berry, the flesh is derived not from the ovary, but from the receptacle that holds the ovary.
berry: a fleshy fruit produced from a single ovary,

Docker is a container virtualization technology that offers the promise of a more efficient, lightweight approach to application deployment than most organizations are currently implementing. With a traditional virtualization hypervisor like VMware ESX, Microsoft Hyper-V or the open-source Xen and Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM) technologies, each virtual machine (VM) needs its own operating system. In contrast, with Docker, applications sit inside a container that resides on a single host operating system, that can serve many containers.
--  hypervisor abstracts an entire device, containers just abstract the operating system kernel.
-- container: share OS, and where applicable, bins/libraries
-- developers can use Docker to pack, ship, and run any application as a lightweight, portable, self sufficient LXC container that can run virtually anywhere
-- It can get more applications running on the same hardware than other technologies; it makes it easy for developers to quickly create, ready-to-run containered applications; and it makes managing and deploying applications much easier

homograph: same spelling, different sound and meaning: lead/lead, wind/wind, row/row
homophone: same sound, different spelling and meaning: too/two, flour/flower
homonym: same sound and spelling, different meaning: bank/bank

firmware: software embedded in hardware for the purpose of controlling the hardware.

device driver: a program that allows the os to communicate with the device.

loop device: a pseudo-device that makes a file accessible as a block device. used to mount a file that contains a filesystem.

ZRAM: Makes a swap device in the RAM. Pages sent here are compressed as they are stored.

Sass: syntactically awesome stylesheet. a CSS preprocessor
Sass has two syntaxes: (1) the indented syntax (original) (2) SCSS (Sassy cSS)

CSS: selector
p {...}
#blah -> id selector
.classname -> class selector
p.center -> p element with class=center

padding: extra space inside the border
margin: extra space outside the border

technical debt: the sacrifice of quality for speed

java 8: default methods: interface methods with concrete implementations.

SQL union vs union all
union concatenates the results of two SQL queries:
example:
--
select ref_num from shp_dnd_record where ref_num = '51X4JM9'
union all select category from shp_dnd_detail where dnd_record_id = 6373409;
--
union : remove duplicates
union all: does not remove duplicates
---
Union vs full outer join:
Union is vertical - rows from table1 followed by rows from table2 (distinct for union, all for union all)
and both table must have same number of columns with compatible datatypes.
Full outer join is horizontal. Number of rows in full outer join is max of table1 and table 2 rows and number of columns = table1 columns + table2 columns.

bit mask: a value used with bit-wise operators to test, set, or reset the state of individual bits in a bit-wise field value.
bit vector: a data structure which compactly stores individual bits (boolean values).
mask: A filter that selectively includes or excludes certain values.

SLA: A contract between a service provider and a customer that specifies the customer's requirements and the provider's commitments.

Thread-safe: A piece of code is thread-safe if it is reentrant or protected from multiple simultaneous executions by some form of mutual exclusion.
A piece of code is reentrant if it functions correctly during simultaneous execution by multiple threads.
A subroutine is reentrant, and thus thread-safe, if it only uses variables from the stack, depends only on the arguments passed in,
and only calls other subroutines with similar properties.
Thread-safety can be achieved through: (a) reentrancy (b) mutual exclusion (c) thread-local storage (d) atomic operations.
Thread safety means that an object always maintains a valid state, even when used concurrently by multiple threads. Safe for use by multiple threads.

Instrumentation: the insertion of additional code into a program in order to collect information about program behavior during program execution.
Useful for dynamic analysis techniques such as assertion checking, coverage analysis, tuning.

Assertion: an expression, if false, indicates an error.

Scalability:
The ability of a system to accommodate growth.
Scalability measures the ability of a system to deliver consistent performance while the workload increases

diamond problem: the ambiguity that can result from multiple inheritance.

generalization: a relationship between a thing and a more specific kind of that thing.

container (or wrapper) format: define how to store things within them, not what kind of data is stored
a metafile format whose specification describes how different elements of data and metadata coexist in a computer file.
--> a metadata format that describes how to store different data elements in a computer file.
--> does not describe how data is encoded.
therefore, a program may be able to identify and open a container file, but it
might not be able to decode the contained data. This may be caused by the program lacking the required decoding algorithm.
example container formats: MPEG-4 (.mp4), Flash (.flv), Ogg (.ogv), WebM (.webm), Audio Video Interleave (.avi)
===
audio coding format:
is a content representation format for storage or transmission of digital sound (such as in a video file, a sound file, or a bitstream).
Examples of audio coding formats include MP3, AAC, Vorbis
MP3: raw audio coding format without a container format
----
codec: a device/program capable of encoding/decoding a digital data stream or signal.
---
diff between coding format and codec
coding format: a document (standard), a way of storing data. specification for representing video/audio as a file/bitstream
codec: a program (an implementation) that can read/write files of a specific coding format.
---
video codec: H.264, Theora, VP8
audio codec: MP3, AAC, Vorbis
codes/container:
Theora video and Vorbis audio in an Ogg container
H.264 and AAC in MP4 container

continuous integration: every check-in is verified by an automated build.
continuous delivery: every check-in is delivered to a staging area or non-production environment (proven to be deployable)
continuous deployment: every check-in is deployed to production.

fork-join paradigm:
In parallel computing, the forkjoin model is a way of setting up and executing parallel programs,
such that execution branches off in parallel at designated points in the program, to "join" (merge) at a subsequent point and resume sequential execution.

koan (software):
a demonstration of a feature with something missing.
you provide the missing value to make the test case pass.
A koan is a small snippet of almost-correct code,

functor
A functor is a mapping between two categories that preserves their structure.
an example of a functor is the "map" function that turns a list of objects into another list by applying a function to each of its elements.
In Haskell, and in some related pure functional language, Functor is a type class. A type belongs to a type class (or more technically, the type "is an instance of" the type class) when the type provides certain operations with certain expected behavior. A type T can belong to class Functor if it has certain collection-like behavior:
monad
a pure functional program has these characteristics: executed in no particular order, no side effects, stateless.
but sometimes we need to do these things.
monad is a construct that allows you to write imperative-style programs, to maintain state, and to do IO.

Tree traversal
1. in-order: left, root, right
2. pre-order: root, left, right
3. post-order: left, right, root
pre and post refer to when we visit the root
in-order: print from smallest to largest
post-order: depth-first search
storage order: pre-order
|-------------------+--------+-------------+-------------|
|                   | vector | linked list | binary tree |
|-------------------+--------+-------------+-------------|
| insert/remove     | O(N)   | O(1)        | O(h)        |
|-------------------+--------+-------------+-------------|
| indexing (lookup) | O(1)   | O(N)        | O(h)        |
|-------------------+--------+-------------+-------------|
| searching         | O(N)   | O(N)        | O(h)        |
|-------------------+--------+-------------+-------------|
====
N: number of elements; h: height
full binary tree: N=2^(h+1) - 1
on average, h=O(logN), tree operation (on average): O(logN)
height of a tree is a logarithmic function of the # of elements in the tree.

A type system is a syntactic method for enforcing levels of abstraction in programs.

Hindley-Milner (or Damas-Milner) is an algorithm for inferring value types based on use.
It literally formalizes the intuition that a type can be deduced by the functionality it supports.

type safety: does not allow the programmer to treat a value as a type to which it does not belong.
weak typing: use a value of one type as if it were a value of another type. example: C

8.8.8.8: google DNS server

sequence point (C): a point in the program's execution where
all side effects of previous evaluations are guaranteed to be complete.
some of the defined sequence points:
The end of the first operand of the following operators:
a) logical AND &&
b) logical OR ||
c) conditional ?
d) comma ,
====
The end of a full expression. This category includes following expression statements
a) Any full statement ended with semicolon like a = b;
b) return statements
c) The controlling expressions of if, switch, while, or do-while statements.
d) All three expressions in a for statement.
====
the operator + doesnt have standard defined order of evaluation for its operands.
Either operand can be executed first

techniques for solving problems:
Brute Force:
example: insertion sort
Divide and Conquer:
example: Mergesort and Quicksort
Greedy Programming:
Algorithms like Kruskal's and Prim's to find the minimum spanning tree of a graph and Dijkstra's to find the shortest path in a graph are classic examples of the greedy programming technique.
Dynamic Programming:
Problems like finding the longest common subsequence between two strings demonstrate one of the hallmarks of dynamic programming: overlapping subproblems that must be solved over and over again.

Dynamic programming:
Used for optimization problem.
solve problem by combining solutions to sub-problems.
sub-problems are not independent.
solve sub-problem in a bottom-up fashion.
store solution to a sub-problem
look up the solution when sub-problem is encountered again.
in order to use DP, the problem must have two attributes:
1. principle of optimality (optimal sub-structure):
in an optimal sequence of decisions, each sub-sequence must be optimal.
an optimal solution to the problem contains within it optimal solutions to sub-problems.
--> (best) the optimal solution to a problem consists of optimal solutions to sub-problems.
2. overlapping sub-problems:
there exist some places where we solve the same sub-problems more than once.
----
vs divide-and-conquer: cannot reuse solutions to sub-problems. non-overlapping sub-problems.
---
divide-and-conquer: break the problem into subproblems that are similar to the original
problem, solve the subproblems recursively, combine solutions to the subproblems to solve the original problem.
---
====
vs greedy algorithm:
greedy: make a local optimization. we just pick one solution.a special case of DP
--> make the choice that looks best at the moment. locally optimal choice.
top-down
-> follows local optimization.It tries to choose the solution which is locally optimum at that particular point of time and may not be the globally optimum solution.
DP: make a global optimization. pick the best solution from a collection of solutions
bottom-up
globally optimal choice

hysteresis: the dependence of the output of a system not only on its current input, but also on its
history of past inputs. The dependence arises because the history affects the value of an internal state.
--> memory of previous events

Operations transform resource or data inputs into desired goods, services, or results, and create and deliver value to the customers.

diff between remainder and modulo
remainder:
1 % 6 = 1
-1 % 6 = -1
1 % -6 = 1
-1 % -6 = -1
modulo:
1 \\ 6 = 1
-1 \\ 6 = 5
1 \\ -6 = -5
-1 \\ -6 = -1
Conclusion:
if dividend and divisor have same sign, same answer
remainder: answer has same sign as dividend

detention: late fee for overdue containers
demurrage: fee for returning laden container too early or picking up laden container too late.

type: a label used by the type system to prove some property of a program's behavior.
a type system is a collection of rules that assign a property called a type to the various
construct, such as variables, expressions, functions or module.
Haskell:
type class is like Java interface?
a type is an instance of a type class?

Database normalization is the process of organizing the attributes and tables of a relational database to minimize data redundancy and dependency.

analytics: info gained from the analysis of data, the result of analysis. you know what you are looking for.
data mining: identify previously unknown pattern and relationship. you don't know what you're looking for.

Finite Capacity Scheduling:
A scheduling method that matches resource requirements to a finite supply of available resources to develop a realistic production plan.
Fair-share scheduling is a scheduling strategy for computer operating systems in which the CPU usage is equally distributed among system users or groups,

event loop, message dispatcher, message loop, message pump, or run loop is a programming construct that waits for and dispatches events or messages in a program.

a callback is a piece of executable code that is passed as an argument to other code, which is expected to call back (execute) the argument at some convenient time.

JSONP: JSON with padding
JSON structure wrapped in a function
e.g. myfunc({"name": "cheok"});

In computer programming, a shim is a small library that transparently intercepts API calls and changes the arguments passed, handles the operation itself, or redirects the operation elsewhere.

A connection timeout occurs only upon starting the TCP connection. This usually happens if the remote machine does not answer. This means that the server has been shut down, you used the wrong IP/DNS name or the network connection to the server is down.
----
A socket timeout is dedicated to monitor the continuous incoming data flow. If the data flow is interrupted for the specified timeout the connection is regarded as stalled/broken.

CNAME stands for Canonical Name. CNAME records can be used to alias one name to another.

For example, if you have a server where you keep all of your documents online, it might normally be accessed through docs.example.com. You may also want to access it through documents.example.com. One way to make this possible is to add a CNAME record that points documents.example.com to docs.example.com. When someone visits documents.example.com they will see the exact same content as docs.example.com.

step into: the next statement displayed is the first statement of the called function
step over: the next statement displayed is the next statement of the current function
step out: execute the remaining lines of a function. the next statement displayed is the statement following the function call.

A TCP socket is an endpoint instance defined by an IP address and a port in the context of either a particular TCP connection or the listening state.
A port is a virtualisation identifier defining a service endpoint (as distinct from a service instance endpoint aka session identifier).
  like a virtualised endpoint.
A TCP socket is not a connection, it is the endpoint of a specific connection.
There can be concurrent connections to a service endpoint, because a connection is identified by both its local and remote endpoints, allowing traffic to be routed to a specific service instance.
There can only be one listener socket for a given address/port combination.
The combination of an IP address and a port is strictly known as an endpoint and is sometimes called a socket. protocol too?
A TCP connection is defined by two endpoints aka sockets.
In order to get a service you need a service number. This service number is called a port.

ARP request : Computer A asks on the network, who has this IP?
ARP reply : All the other computers ignore the request except the computer which has the requested IP. This computer, lets say B says, I have the requested
    IP address and here is my MAC address.
RARP request: This is more or less same as ARP request, the difference being that in this message a MAC address is broad-casted on network.
RARP reply : Same concept. Computer B tells that the requested MAC is mine and here is my IP address.

HTTP keep-alive, or HTTP connection reuse, is the idea of using a single TCP connection to send and receive multiple HTTP requests/responses,
as opposed to opening a new connection for every single request/response pair. The newer HTTP/2 protocol uses the same idea and takes it
further to allow multiple concurrent requests/responses to be multiplexed over a single connection.

template engine: generate HTML from a template file and application data.

Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR): allocate IP address space on any address bit boundary
e.g. 192.168.2.0/24 . 24 is the number of bits in the network address or network/routing mask.

software-defined networking: the decoupling of the network control plane from the network forwarding plane
